h 1
bastion	 	stronghold; something seen as a source of protection; Ex. the last bastion of male chauvinism
growl	 	low, guttural, menacing sound (as of a dog)
maverick	 	rebel; nonconformist (in a group)
lethargic	 	drowsy; dull; N. lethargy: state of sluggishness and inactivity
paraphernalia	 	equipment; odds and ends used in a particular activity; personal belongings; Ex. photographic paraphernalia; CF. married woman's property exclusive of her dowry
mores	 	conventions; moral standards; moral customs
timidity	 	lack of self-confidence or courage
understate	 	state with less truth than seems warranted by the facts; Ex. He understated the seriousness of the crime; N. understatement; OP. overstate
protocol	 	diplomatic etiquette; ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats; first copy of a treaty before its ratification; Ex. Protocol demands that the queen meet him at the airport.
braid	 	plait; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; N: braided segment (as of hair)
acquiesce	 	assent; agree passively; comply without protest
favoritism	 	display of partiality toward a favored person
wake	 	trail of ship or other object through water; path of something that has gone before; Ex. hunger followed in the wake of the war
draught	 	current of air (through a room or to a fire); act of pulling roads; act of swallowing liquid or amount of liquid swallowed at a time
betoken	 	signify; indicate; be a sign of
aviary	 	enclosure for birds; large cage
waggish	 	humorous; mischievous; tricky
adapt	 	make or become suitable for a specific use; alter; modify; adjust; N. adaptation: act of adapting; composition recast into a new form; Ex. The play is an adaption of a short novel.
bugaboo	 	bugbear; object of baseless terror
foliage	 	masses of leaves; CF. defoliate
satellite	 	small body revolving around a larger one
bungle	 	mismanage; blunder; botch; blow; spoil by clumsy behavior
reinstate	 	restore to a previous condition or position
mnemonic	 	pertaining to memory; assisting the memory; N: device, such as as formula or rhyme, used as a mnemonic aid
conscript	 	draftee; person forced into military service; V.
contend	 	struggle; compete; assert earnestly; state strongly
functional	 	made for practical use only (without decoration); functioning; Ex. functional modern furniture; CF. functionalism
punctilious	 	minutely attentive (perhaps too much so) to fine points; stressing niceties of conduct or form; N. punctilio, punctiliousness: careful attention payed to every small exact detail
imbecility	 	weakness of mind; state of being an imbecile; N. imbecile: stupid person; fool
rebuke	 	scold harshly; criticize severely
facile	 	easily accomplished; ready or fluent; superficial; not deep; Ex. facile solution to a complex problem; Ex. facile speaker; N. facility: ability to do something easily and well; ease in doing resulting from skill or aptitude; something that facilitates an action; amenity; Ex. with great facility
hardy	 	(of people or animals) sturdy; robust; (of plants) able to stand inclement(stormy) weather
penury	 	extreme poverty; stinginess; ADJ. penurious: very poor; stingy
venal	 	capable of being bribed; corrupt; CF. vernal
flit	 	fly; fly or move lightly or quickly; dart lightly; pass swiftly by; Ex. a bee flitting from flower to flower
magnate	 	person of prominence or influence; powerful or influential person (in business or industry); Ex. oil magnate
botch	 	mismanage; blow
citadel	 	fortress
libidinous	 	lustful
mendicant	 	beggar; ADJ: living as a beggar
oaf	 	stupid awkward person; CF. elf
voyeur	 	Peeping Tom; person who derives sexual gratification from observing the sexual acts of others
docile	 	obedient; easily managed; submissive
vitiate	 	spoil the effect of; make inoperative; corrupt morally
narrative	 	related to telling a story; N: narrated account; story; V. narrate: tell (a story); CF. narration
derision	 	ridicule; ADJ. derisive; CF. derisory
cupidity	 	greed (for wealth); CF. cupid; CF. Cupid
savory	 	pleasant in taste; tasty; pleasing, attractive, or agreeable; Ex. savory reputation
rank	 	offensive in odor or flavor
quisling	 	traitor who aids invaders; CF. Vidkun Quisling
tact	 	skill or sensitivity in dealing with people without causing offence
fallacious	 	false; based on a fallacy; misleading; N. fallacy: false idea or notion; false reasoning; Ex. popular fallacy; Ex. fallacy of the argument
trim	 	make neat or tidy by clipping; reduce by removing what is unnecessary; ornament; decorate (round the edges); Ex. trim the cost; Ex. jacket trimmed with fur; N. ADJ: tidy; in good order
compartment	 	one of the parts into which an enclosed space is divided
squander	 	waste; spend foolishly
colloquy	 	informal discussion; conversation
refurbish	 	renovate; make clean, bright, or fresh (make new) again; make bright by polishing; Ex. refurbish an old theater; CF. furbish: polish
desolate	 	make desolate; forsake; abandon and desert
fumble	 	move the fingers and hands awkwardly (in search of something); mishandle or drop a ball that is in play; bungle; botch; spoil by mishandling; N.
misapprehension	 	error; misunderstanding; V. misapprehend
ameliorate	 	improve
isthmus	 	narrow neck of land connecting two larger bodies of land
skulduggery(skullduggery)	 	dishonest behavior or action; Ex. skulduggery in the election
celibate	 	abstaining from sexual intercourse; unmarried; N. celibacy
odium	 	detestation; quality of being odious; hatefulness; disrepute (resulting from hateful conduct)
deserts	 	what someone deserves
nugatory	 	worthless; futile
rendition	 	rendering; translation; artistic interpretation of a song, etc
incursion	 	temporary invasion; CF. excursion: short journey
terrestrial	 	on or relating to the earth
stigma	 	token of disgrace; brand; V. stigmatize: mark with a stigma; characterize as disgraceful
gross	 	total; fragrant; clearly wrong; (of people's behavior) coarse; corpulent; Ex. gross insolence/behavior; V: earn as a total amount; N: 12 dozens
doctrine	 	teachings in general; particular principle (religious, legal, etc.) taught; dogma; tenet; ADJ. doctrinal
misnomer	 	wrong or improper name; incorrect designation
proliferate	 	grow rapidly (in numbers); spread; multiply; N. proliferation
hindsight	 	understanding the nature of an event after it has actually happened
lucid	 	easily understood; clear; intelligible; N. lucidity
impenetrable	 	not able to be pierced or entered; beyond understanding; impossible to understand; Ex. impenetrable mystery
ghastly	 	horrible; terrifying; resembling ghosts; CF. aghast
tremulous	 	trembling; wavering
garish	 	overbright in color; unpleasantly bright; gaudy
euphony	 	sweet sound; ADJ. euphonious
pithy	 	concise and meaningful; substantial; meaty
girth	 	distance around something; circumference
lap	 	take in food or drink with one's tongue; splash gently; Ex. waves lapping the shore; N: front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person
asteroid	 	small planet
adulation	 	flattery; admiration that is more than is necessary or deserved
array	 	marshal; draw up in order; arrange in order; clothe splendidly; adorn; N: fine clothes; ordered group; Ex. in battle array
redoubtable	 	formidable; causing fear
approbation	 	approval
attrition	 	rubbing away by friction; gradual decrease in numbers or strength; reduction in the work force without firing employees; wearing away of opposition by means of harassment; Ex. a war of attrition
secession	 	withdrawal; V. secede: withdraw formally from membership
poignancy	 	quality of being deeply moving; keenness of emotion; ADJ. poignant: touching; deeply moving; (of sorrow, grief, etc.) painful; keenly distressing to the mind; Ex. poignant memory/anxiety; CF. prick
fodder	 	coarse food for cattle, horses, etc.; feed for livestock; CF. food
regale	 	entertain
warren	 	tunnels in which rabbits live; overcrowded living area; crowded conditions in which people live
distant	 	reserved or aloof; cold in manner; Ex. distant greeting; ADV. distantly
h 2
entrance	 	put under a spell(condition caused by magical power); carry away(fill with strong feeling) with emotion; put into a trance; fill with delight
heterogeneous	 	dissimilar; mixed; not homogeneous; consisting of dissimilar elements or plants
temperate	 	moderate; restrained; self-controlled; moderate in respect to temperature; CF. temperance: moderation and self-restraint; abstinence of alcoholic drinks; Ex. temperance society
glamor	 	compelling charm; ADJ. glamorous
disinterested	 	unprejudiced; free from bias and self-interest; objective
mosaic	 	picture made of small colorful inlaid tiles; ADJ.
arboreal	 	of or living in trees
uninhibited	 	unrepressed; free in behavior and feelings
amnesty	 	pardon (allowed by government to political criminals)
stint	 	supply; allotted amount of work; assigned portion of work; limitation; Ex. two-year stint in the army; Ex. without stint
spin	 	rotate swiftly; make (thread) by twisting (cotton, wool, etc.); N.
grumble	 	complain; mutter discontentedly; grouch; N.
recondite	 	abstruse; not easily understood; profound; secret
consonance	 	harmony; agreement
enduring	 	lasting; surviving; V. endure: bear (pain or suffering) for a long time; remain alive (in spite of difficulties); last; survive
concave	 	hollow; curved inwards; OP. convex
forward	 	presumptuous or bold
astigmatism	 	eye defect which prevents proper focus; OP. stigmatism
singular	 	being only one; individual; unique; extraordinary; odd; Ex. singular beauty/behavior
augury	 	omen; prophecy; sign of coming events; V. augur: predict; foretell; be a sign of (something in future)
tribulation	 	suffering; ordeal; distress; trial
cater	 	provide food and drink (for); cater to: try to satisfy (desires of a bad kind)
sartorial	 	pertaining to tailors or tailoring; Ex. a man of great sartorial elegance; CF. sartor: tailor
slur	 	slander; insult to one's character or reputation; V.
quarry	 	person or animal of pursuit; victim; object of a hunt; prey
queue	 	line (of waiting people or vehicles)
funereal	 	sad; solemn; suitable for a funeral
genre	 	particular variety of art or literature
amphibian	 	able to live both on land and in water; N.
ineluctable	 	irresistible; not to be escaped; unavoidable
appall	 	dismay; shock deeply
analgesia	 	condition of being unable to feel pain
resign	 	give up (a position, right, or claim); submit (oneself) passively
pang	 	sudden sharp feeling of pain
incontinent	 	lacking self-restraint; not continent; licentious
stickler	 	perfectionist; person who insists things be exactly right
inclined	 	tending or leaning toward; bent; V. incline: slant; dispose; be disposed; tend
episodic	 	(of a story or play) loosely connected; made up of separate and loosely connected parts; N. episode: incident in the course of an experience
seasonable	 	occurring at the proper time or season; opportune; Ex. seasonable intervention in the dispute
astringent	 	binding; causing contraction (stopping bleeding); harsh or severe; stringent; Ex. astringent criticism
quotidian	 	daily; commonplace; customary; Ex. quotidian routine
stanza	 	division of a poem (composed of two or more lines)
sentinel	 	sentry; lookout
saga	 	Scandinavian myth; any legend; long heroic narrative
aristocracy	 	hereditary nobility; privileged class; government by nobility; N. aristocrat
innuendo	 	indirect or subtle (derogatory) hint; insinuation; Ex. sexual innuendo
rag	 	scrap of cloth; ADJ. ragged: old and torn; seeming unfinished and imperfect; Ex. ragged debut/performance
conducive	 	helpful; contributive; V. conduce; Ex. conduce to/towards
slight	 	insult to one's dignity; snub; V: treat as if of small importance; insult; snub; ADJ. small in size; of small importance
tout	 	promote or publicize (one's goods or service); praise excessively (as a form of advertisement); CF. advertise
repugnance	 	disgust; strong dislike; loathing; ADJ. repugnant: arousing disgust; repulsive
cue	 	word or signal (as in a play to prompt another actor's speech or entrance); reminder or hint; V: give a cue to
soliloquy	 	talking to oneself (esp. in a play); CF. monologue: soliloquy; long speech by one person (often monopolizing a conversation)
fruition	 	bearing of fruit; fulfillment; realization; Ex. come to/be brought to fruition
termination	 	end; V. terminate
intermittent	 	periodic; on and off; stopping and starting at intervals
jocose	 	given to(having a tendency of) joking
blasphemy	 	irreverence; sacrilege; cursing; bad language about God or holy things; V. blasphem; ADJ. blasphemous; CF. sacrilege
consummate	 	complete; V.
consequential	 	self-important; significant; consequent; following as a result; Ex. consequential air; CF. subsequent
gainsay	 	deny
abolish	 	cancel; put an end to
convivial	 	pleasantly merry; festive; joyous; gay; characterized by joviality; jovial
gawk	 	stare foolishly; look in open-mouthed awe
betray	 	be unfaithful; reveal (unconsciously or unwillingly); Ex. Her trembling hands betray her anxiety.
cession	 	yielding to another; ceding
cogent	 	convincing
flaunt	 	display ostentatiously; Ex. ``Honey, if you've got it, flaunt it !''
chaperon	 	older person who accompanies and supervises a young unmarried woman
conspire	 	take part in a conspiracy; (of events) work together; combine; Ex. Events conspired to produce great difficulties.
clemency	 	disposition to be lenient in deciding punishments; mildness as of the weather; ADJ. clement
nostrum	 	questionable medicine; quack medicine; CF. our (remedy)
scrutinize	 	examine closely and critically; N. scrutiny
archetype	 	prototype; primitive pattern
trite	 	hackneyed; commonplace
codify	 	arrange (laws or rules) as a code; classify; N. code: system of words used instead of ordinary writing; collection of laws, rules, established social customs
conflagration	 	great fire
subliminal	 	below the threshold of conscious perception; Ex. subliminal advertisement
duplicity	 	double-dealing; hypocrisy; being dishonest and deceitful; ADJ. duplicitous
epithet	 	word or phrase characteristically used to describe a person or thing; descriptive phrase to characterize a person (often contemptous)
peon	 	landless agricultural worker; bond servant; menial worker; N. peonage
thematic	 	of a theme; relating to a unifying motif or idea
plight	 	difficult condition; condition or state (esp. a bad state or condition); predicament
cohorts	 	group of people who share some common quality; armed band; a group of between 300 and 600 soldiers under one commander (in the ancient Rome)
labile	 	likely to change; unstable; Ex. emotionally labile; N. lability
panegyric	 	formal praise; encomium; Ex. I don't deserve such panegyrics.
apothecary	 	druggist; pharmacist
requisition	 	formal demand or request; Ex. requisition for more computing equipment; V.
ample	 	enough; abundant; spacious; large in size; Ex. ample opportunity/garden; N. amplitude: quality of being ample; abundance; largeness of space
unassuaged	 	unsatisfied; not soothed
exigency	 	urgent situation; ADJ. exigent
voodoo	 	religion practiced chiefly in Haiti
furrow	 	long shallow trench made by a plow; deep wrinkle in the skin; V.
gerontocracy	 	government ruled by old people
rarefied	 	made less dense (of a gas); V. rarefy: make less dense; N. rarefaction
madrigal	 	pastoral song; song for several singers without instruments
multilingual	 	having many languages; fluent in several languages
h 3
adept	 	expert at; very skilled
suffocate	 	die or kill from lack of air; suppress
deadlock	 	standstill resulting from the opposition of two unrelenting forces; stalemate
laconic	 	brief and to the point; using few words; terse
fake	 	not genuine; N: one that is not genuine; impostor; sham; V: counterfeit; Ex. fake the results of the experiment/the signature
apparition	 	ghost; phantom
scurrilous	 	abusive; obscene; indecent; Ex. scurrilous remark
consanguineous(consanguine)	 	having a common ancestor
diabolical	 	diabolic; devilish; fiendish
wither	 	(of a plant) dry up from loss of moisture; lose freshness; shrivel; decay
fresco	 	painting on wet plaster (usually fresh)
masochist	 	person who enjoys his own pain; CF. masochism
progenitor	 	ancestor
odoriferous	 	giving off an odor
asperity	 	sharpness; roughness; severity (of temper or weather); Ex. asperities of a Russian winter
salient	 	prominent; projecting beyond a line; conspicuous; Ex. salient features
brook	 	tolerate; endure; Ex. brook no interference; N: small stream
ductile	 	malleable; pliable; (of metals) easily pulled into shape; flexible; (of someone) easily influenced or controlled
subversive	 	tending to overthrow or ruin; V. subvert: overthrow completely (an established system); destroy completely; CF. undermine ?
monotony	 	sameness leading to boredom; monotonousness; ADJ. monotonous; CF. monotone
inkling	 	hint; slight indication
corrode	 	destroy or wear away gradually by chemical action (over a long period)
nirvana	 	in Buddhist teachings, the ideal state in which the individual loses himself in the attainment of an impersonal beatitude
ribald	 	marked by vulgar lewd humor; wanton; profane; N. ribaldry: ribald language or joke
elastic	 	able to spring back into shape; quick to recover (as from disappointment); able to adapt to change; Ex. elastic plans; N: elastic material
biennial	 	every two years
pugilist	 	boxer; CF. pugilism: boxing
eulogy	 	expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone's death; V. eulogize
limp	 	walk lamely; ADJ: lacking firmness; weak
coy	 	shy (flirtatiously); showing a (pretended) lack of self-confidence; modest; coquettish; CF. job offer를 받았을 때
ordain	 	decree or command; grant holy orders; predestine; install as a minister, priest, or rabbi; N. ordainment; CF. ordination
noisome	 	foul smelling; very unpleasant; unwholesome
semblance	 	outward appearance; guise; Ex. We called in the troops to bring a/some semblance of order to the city.
assert	 	state strongly or positively; demand recognition of (rights, claims, etc.); make a claim to (by forceful action); Ex. assert one's independence
calamity	 	disaster; misery
foil	 	defeat; frustrate; prevent from being successful; thwart; CF. fail
invocation	 	prayer for help (used in invoking); calling upon as a reference or support; act of invoking
retaliate	 	repay in kind (usually for bad treatment); V. retaliate
complicity	 	participation; involvement (in a questionable act or a crime)
tangible	 	able to be touched; real; concrete; palpable; possible to realize or understand; Ex. tangible proof
numismatist	 	person who collects coins; N. numismatics: study or collection of money, coins, and medals
supplant	 	take the place of unfairly; usurp; replace
progeny	 	children; offspring; descendants
list	 	tilt (as of a ship); lean over (to one side)
invoke	 	call and bring into use (a right or law); call on/upon (a higher power or god) for help; ask for; beg for; conjure (a spirit); Ex. invoke the veto power; Ex. invoke one's advisor/God
slither	 	slip or slide
precedent	 	something preceding in time which may be used as an authority or guide for future action; V. precede; CF. unprecedented
gaunt	 	lean and angular; thin and bony; emaciated; barren
dishearten	 	discourage
commensurate	 	equal in extent; of the same size
ethereal	 	like a spirit or fairy; unearthly light; heavenly; unusually refined; Ex. She has an ethereal beauty; CF. ether: upper air
archaic	 	antiquated; no longer used; belonging to the past; N.
longevity	 	long life; long duration
pan	 	criticize harshly
quintessence	 	purest and highest embodiment; perfect example; apotheosis; most essential element; Ex. quintessence of wit; ADJ. quintessential; CF. fifth essence
scanty	 	meager; insufficient
unseemly	 	unbecoming; not proper in behavior; indecent; Ex. leave with unseemly haste
rebuff	 	reject bluntly; snub; beat back; Ex. She rebuffed his invitation; N.
pulverize	 	crush or grind into very small particles
canny	 	shrewd in money matters; thrifty
influx	 	flowing into
overwrought	 	nervous or excited; extremely agitated; hysterical; wrought-up; CF. wrought: made or done
clientele	 	body of customers
patent	 	obvious; easily seen; open for the public to read; of or protected by a patent; Ex. patent to everyone; N.
wane	 	decrease in size or strength (after being full); grow gradually to an end; Ex. The moon waxes and wanes every month; N.
fetter	 	shackle; restrict the freedom of; N. chain or shackle for the foot of a prisoner; CF. foot
regeneration	 	spiritual rebirth; Ex. regeneration of the prisoners; V. regenerate: give or obtain new life; reform spiritually
pedagogy	 	teaching; art of education
jubilation	 	rejoicing; great joy
mete	 	measure; distribute; administer; Ex. mete out justice/punishment
pulmonary	 	pertaining to the lungs
rift	 	narrow opening in a large mass; break in a friendly relation; Ex. through a rift in the clouds; OP. reconcilation
exonerate	 	acquit; exculpate; free from blame or guilt
untoward	 	unexpected and adverse; unfortunate or unlucky; Ex. untoward encounter
ramp	 	slope; inclined plane or roadway (connecting two levels)
juncture	 	crisis; point in time; joining point; joint; act of joining
perspicuous	 	(of something) plainly expressed; easy to understand; Ex. perspicuous comments
devoid	 	empty; lacking
prefigure	 	be a sign of; foreshadow
indicative	 	suggestive; implying; serving to indicate
denigrate	 	blacken; defame
lexicon	 	dictionary
sober	 	serious; solemn; not drunken; abstemious or temperate; V: make or become sober
bode	 	foreshadow; portend
reparation	 	compensation (for loss or wrong); amends; Ex. make reparation for the damage; CF. repair
odious	 	arousing strong dislike; hateful(causing hatred); vile
maraud	 	move in search of plunder; Ex. marauding army
meager	 	scanty; inadequate
ceremonious	 	marked by formality; extremely formal and polite; CF. ceremony: conventional social courtesy
autonomous	 	self-governing; N. autonomy
vapid	 	lacking liveliness; dull and unimaginative; insipid and flavorless; Ex. vapid lecture
propitiate	 	appease; conciliate; make peaceful; ADJ. propitiatory
fledgling(fledgeling)	 	inexperienced; N: young bird that has acquired wing feathers and is learning to fly; inexperienced person
immaculate	 	spotless; flawless; absolutely clean
distinctive	 	clearly different from others of the same kind
transpose	 	reverse the order or position of
momentum	 	quantity of motion of a moving body; impetus; moving force
h 4
exploit	 	brave and successful act; deed or action, particularly a brave deed; CF. crossing the Atlantic ocean
sibylline	 	prophetic; oracular; N. sibyl: woman prophet (in the ancient world)
serrated	 	having a sawtoothed edge; Ex. serrated leaf
cohere	 	stick together
wistful	 	sadly thoughtful (because of desires or memories); sadly pensive; vaguely longing
gamely	 	in a spirited manner; with courage; Ex. fight gamely against a superior boxer; ADJ. game
spurn	 	reject disdainfully; scorn; Ex. She spurned all offers of help.
conservatory(conservatoire)	 	school of the fine arts (especially music or drama); glass-enclosed area; CF. conservancy
malcontent	 	person dissatisfied with existing state of affairs; discontented person; ADJ: discontented
killjoy	 	grouch; spoilsport; one who intentionally spoils the pleasure of others
discourse	 	serious speech, writing, or conversation; formal discussion (either written or spoken); conversation; V.
bifurcated	 	divided into two branches; forked
lucrative	 	profitable; producing wealth
qualms	 	uneasy feelings; misgivings; uneasy fears especially about matters of conscience; Ex. I have no qualms about giving this assignment to Helen.
fusion	 	union; coalition; V. fuse
clarion	 	shrill, trumpetlike sound; kind of trumpet used in former times
traverse	 	go through or across
cherubic	 	angelic; innocent-looking; N. cherub; CF. seraph: winged angel of the highest order
parasite	 	animal or plant living on another; toady; sycophant; CF. para-: beside
decomposition	 	decay; V. decompose: decay; break and separate into simple parts
industrious	 	diligent; hard-working; N. industry
metallurgical	 	pertaining to the art of removing metals from ores; N. metallurgy: science that deals with extracting metals from ores
dutiful(duteous)	 	(of people or their behavior) respectful; obedient (filled with a sense of duty)
indices	 	signs; indications; Ex. indices of a student's potential; CF. index: something that reveals or indicates; sign; Ex. cost-of-living index
disband	 	dissolve; disperse; (of a group) break up and separate; Ex. The club has disbanded.
supposititious	 	assumed; counterfeit; hypothetical
despot	 	tyrant; harsh, authoritarian ruler; CF. despotism
topple	 	become unsteady and fall down
apprise	 	inform
tardy	 	slow; sluggish; not on time; late; Ex. tardy arrival
sheer	 	pure; thin and transparent; very steep
optician	 	maker and seller of eyeglasses
deposition	 	testimony under oath; deposing; dethroning
legend	 	explanatory list of symbols on a map
aseptic	 	preventing infection; having a cleansing effect
farce	 	broad comedy; mockery; humorous play full of silly things happening; ADJ. farcical
acrid	 	bitter (to the taste or smell); sharp; bitterly pungent 
raconteur	 	story-teller; one who tells stories with wit and skill
reduce	 	diminish; bring to a weaker or more difficult condition; demote; lower in rank; separate into components by analysis; Ex. reduced to the ranks; Ex. reduce the house to rubble; N. reduction
dart	 	move or throw suddenly and quickly
scholarly	  full of learning; erudite; like a scholar; Ex. scholarly journal
cohesion	 	tendency to keep together
epoch	 	period of time
canard	 	unfounded false rumor; exaggerated false report
toss	 	throw lightly; move or lift (the head) with a sudden motion; flip (a coin) to decide something
phalanx	 	formation of infantry carrying overlapping shields and long spears; group of men packed together (for attack or defense)
bar	 	railing in a courtroom; legal profession; vertical line dividing a staff into equal measures; Ex. prisoner at the bar; V: shut in or out with bars; forbid; exclude; CF. barrister
lineaments	 	features especially of the face; distinctive shape or contour of the face; CF. line
validate	 	make valid; confirm; ratify
compelling	 	overpowering; irresistible in effect; holding one's attention; that compels one to do something; Ex. a compelling adventure story; V. compel
choreography	 	art of representing dances in written symbols; arrangement of dances
furor	 	frenzy; great anger and excitement; CF. fury
obituary	 	death notice (esp. in a newspaper); ADJ.
dialectical	 	relating to the art of debate; mutual or reciprocal; Ex. dialectical situation; N. dialectic: art of arriving at the truth by the exchange of logical arguments
oratorio	 	dramatic poem set to music; long musical work with singing but without acting; CF. cantata
sloth	 	slow moving tree-dwelling mammal; laziness; ADJ. slothful: lazy; indolent
simian	 	monkeylike; N: ape or monkey
inter	 	bury; N. interment
supersede	 	replace; cause to be set aside; make obsolete; N. supersession
coroner	  public official who investigates any death thought to be of other than natural causes
perspicuity	 	clearness of expression; freedom from ambiguity
succulent	 	juicy; full of juice or sap; full of richness; N: succulent plant such as a cactus
ransack	 	search thoroughly; pillage (going through a place); Ex. Enemy soldiers ransacked the town.
dorsal	 	relating to the back of an animal; Ex. dorsal fin
protean	 	able to take on many forms; versatile; CF. Proteus: sea god to change his shape at will
conscientious	 	scrupulous; through and careful; Ex. conscientious worker
gape	 	open widely; open the mouth wide; stare wonderingly with the mouth open; CF. agape
perverse	 	purposely continuing to do something wrong; stubbornly wrongheaded; perverted; directed away from what is right; wicked and unacceptable; Ex. perverse satisfaction; Ex. Hannibal Lecter in a perverse mood; N. perversity
nexus	 	connection
mercantile	 	concerning trade or merchants
inestimable	  impossible to estimate; (apprec) invaluable; of immeasurable worth
quixotic	 	idealistic but impractical; CF. Don Quixote
antipathy	 	aversion; dislike or opposition
chaste	 	morally pure; virginal; abstaining from illicit sexual acts; modest; simple (of a style of writing); not highly decorated; austere
incident	 	event; event that causes a crisis
distraught	 	upset; distracted by anxiety; very anxious and troubled almost to the point of madness; Ex. distraught with grief/worry
recreant	 	disloyal; cowardly; N: disloyal and cowardly person
disport	 	amuse; Ex. disport oneself; CF. divert
proxy	 	authorized agent; authority to act for another
leave-taking	 	farewell or departure
tender	 	offer formally; extend; Ex. tender one's resignation/the exact fare; N: formal offer; money; Ex. legal tender; ADJ: young and vulnerable; sensitive to the touch; sore; soft; delicate; Ex. child of tender years; Ex. tender wound
brunt	 	main impact or shock (of an attack or blow); Ex. brunt of the argument
junta	 	group of persons joined in political intrigue; cabal; group of military officers ruling a country after seizing power (by force)
materialism	 	preoccupation with physical comforts and things; excessive regard for worldly concerns (rather than spiritual matters)
analgesic	 	causing insensitivity to pain; N.
jurisprudence	 	science of law
dossier	 	file of documents on a subject or person; file; CF. bundle of papers labeled on the back
transparent	 	permitting light to pass through freely; easily detected; obvious; clear; Ex. transparent lie
virulent	 	(of a disease or poison) extremely harmful or poisonous; (of a feeling) hostile; bitter; N. virulence; CF. virus; CF. venom
bluster	 	blow in heavy gusts; threaten emptily; bully; speak in a noisy or bullying manner; CF. breeze, gust, gale
capacious	 	spacious
conspiracy	 	treacherous plot; secret plan against the law (by two or more people)
lectern	 	reading desk or stand for a public speaker
aria	 	operatic solo; a song sung by one person in an opera or oratorio
unique	 	without an equal; single in kind
posterity	 	descendants; future generations; Ex. go down to posterity; CF. posterior, anterior
pacifist	 	one opposed to force; antimilitarist; ADJ. N. pacifism: opposition to war as a means of resolving disputes
h 5
insatiable	 	not easily satisfied; unquenchable; Ex. insatiable appetite
exhilarating	 	invigorating and refreshing; cheering; V. exhilarate: make cheerful and excited; Ex. exhilarated by the ride in the sports car
bohemian	 	unconventional (in an artistic way)
ignoble	 	unworthy; not noble; dishonorable; Ex. ignoble deed
career	 	rush wildly; go at full speed
zeal	 	eager enthusiasm (to a cause or ideal); ADJ. zealous
miscellany	 	mixture of writings on various subjects; collection of various items
acquittal	 	deliverance from a charge; V. acquit: free from a charge or accusation; discharge from a duty; conduct (oneself) in a specified manner
evocative	 	tending to call up (emotions, memories)
titter	 	nervous giggle; nervous laugh; V.
glut	 	overstock; fill beyond capacity (with food); fill to excess; N: oversupply
devious	 	roundabout; erratic; deviating from the straight course; not straightforward; not completely honest; Ex. devious route
imperturbable	 	unshakably calm; placid
husbandry	 	frugality; thrift; economy; agriculture; farming; Ex. animal husbandry; CF. husbandman
ingrate	 	ungrateful person (not expressing thanks)
comport	 	bear one's self; behave; Ex. comport oneself; N. comportment
reprobation	 	severe disapproval; CF. approbation
arch-	 	chief; first; Ex. archbishop
incendiary	 	arsonist; ADJ: causing fire; of arson; Ex. incendiary bomb
glossary	 	brief explanation of words used in the text
helm	 	steering wheel of a ship; position of control
pretext	 	excuse
solvent	 	able to pay all depths; N. solvency
nauseous	 	causing nausea; feeling nausea
valor	 	bravery; ADJ. valiant: possessing valor; brave
impasse	 	predicament(dangerous condition) from which there is no escape; situation allowing for no further progress
foreboding	 	premonition of evil; feeling of coming evil; V. forebode: be a warning of (something unpleasant)
copious	 	plentiful
overturn	 	turn over; capsize; topple
fawning	 	courting favor by cringing and flattering; V. fawn: exhibit affection as a dog; seek favor or attention by obsequiousness
allegory	 	story, play, or picture in which characters are used as symbols; fable
retain	 	keep; maintain possession of; employ (esp. a lawyer or advisor); N. retainer: servant; fee paid to retain an advisor
mimicry	 	imitation
extrinsic	 	external; not essential or inherent; extraneous; OP. intrinsic
duration	 	length of time something lasts
truism	 	self-evident truth
absolve	 	pardon (an offense)
arsenal	 	storage place for military equipment
centrifugal	 	radiating; departing from the center
alms	 	money or goods given to the poor
shrew	 	scolding woman; very small mouselike animal
sordid	 	filthy; foul; base; vile; Ex. sordid bed/story
franchise	 	right or privilege granted by authority; right to vote; license to sell a product in a particular territory
enhance	 	increase; make greater (as in value, reputation, or usefulness); improve
anesthetic	 	substance that removes sensation with or without loss of consciousness; N. anesthesia
decadence	 	decay; fall to a lower level (of morality, civilization, or art); ADJ. decadent
ejaculation	 	exclamation; abrupt ejection (to discharge sperm); V. ejaculate
terse	 	concise; abrupt; pithy
vintner	 	wine merchant; winemaker; seller of wine
labyrinth	 	maze
detain	 	keep waiting; prevent from leaving or going; N. detention
self-indulgence	 	excessive indulgence of one's own desire
philology	 	study of language or words
recapitulate	 	summarize
odorous	 	having an odor
rustle	 	make slight sounds like silk moving or being rubbed together
licentious	 	amoral; lewd and lascivious; unrestrained
physiognomy	 	face (as showing the character and the mind); art of judging human character from facial features
awful	 	terrible; very bad
ravenous	 	extremely hungry; voracious
earmark	  set aside (money or time) for a particular purpose
unaccountable	 	unexplicable; impossible to account for; unreasonable or mysterious
behoove(behove)	 	be suited to; be incumbent upon; be right and necessary; Ex. It behooves one to do.
badger	 	pester; annoy continually with demands; persuade by asking again and again; Ex. The children badgered me into taking them into the cinema; N: a kind of mountain animal
rumble	 	make or move with a deep rolling sound (as thunder or stomach)
sojourn	 	temporary stay; V: stay for a time
myopic	 	nearsighted; lacking foresight; N. myopia
tortuous	 	winding; full of curves; Ex. tortuous mountain road
cross	 	bad-tempered; showing ill-humor; angry
murmur	 	low, indistinct, continuous sound; V. CF. mumble
fret	 	be annoyed or vexed; Ex. fret over your poor grades; N: irritation of mind; ADJ. fretful
gaffe	 	social blunder
divest	 	strip (as of clothes); deprive (as of rights); dispossess; N. divestiture(divestment)
beatitude	 	blessedness; state of great happiness
sinecure	 	well-paid position with little responsibility; CF. sine cure: without care; CF. San Serif
squat	 	short and thick; stocky; Ex. ugly squat tower; V. N.
unintimating	 	unfrightening
provocative	 	arousing anger or sexual interest; annoying; Ex. provocative in tight jeans; V. provoke: incite to anger; cause (an unpleasant action or feeling); N. provocation
discomfit	 	frustrate; put to rout; defeat; disconcert; embarrass; perturb
tarry	 	linger; delay in starting or going; dawdle
prosperous	 	successful; rich; affluent; well-to-do; well-off
apotheosis	 	elevation to godhood; an ideal example of something
pinnace	 	small boat
transition	 	going from one state of action to another
maudlin	 	effusively sentimental
chameleon	 	lizard that changes color in different situations
aspersion	 	slanderous remark; Ex. cast aspersions on
ape	 	imitate or mimic (a person's behavior or manner)
render	 	give; deliver; provide; represent in verbal or artistic form; depict; perform; make; translate; Ex. render the song beautifully
galley	 	low ship with sails (rowed along by slaves)
curb	 	chain or strap used with a bit to restrain a horse; something that checks; V: check; restrain
buffet	 	strike forcefully; slap; batter; knock out; N: table with food set out for people to server themselves; meal at which people help themselves to food that's been set
seemly	 	(of behavior) proper; appropriate
decrepitude	 	state of collapse or weakness caused by illness or old age
protuberance	 	protrusion; swelling; bulge
benefit	 	advantage; anything that brings helpl, advantage, or profit;  money provided by the government to the people; fund-raising public entertainment; Ex. unemployment benefit; V: receive benefits; be beneficial to; give benefits
memorialize	 	commemorate
h 6
condign	 	adequate; (of punishment) severe and well deserved
oscillate	 	vibrate pendulumlike; waver
theoretical	 	based on theory; not practical or applied; hypothetical
pundit	 	authority on a subject; expert; learned person
stereotype	 	one regarded as embodying a set image or type; fixed and unvarying representation; standardized mental picture often reflecting prejudice; Ex. stereotype of the happy slave; V: make a stereotype of; represent by a stereotype; Ex. It is wrong to stereotype people; Ex. stereotyped answer
brawny	 	muscular; having well-developed muscles
surfeit	 	satiate; feed or supply to excess; stuff; indulge to excess in anything; N: surfeiting; excessive amount; Ex. surfeit of food
hazard	 	venture; put in danger; risk; Ex. hazard a guess; N: possible source of danger
eloquence	 	expressiveness; persuasive speech; ADJ. eloquent: movingly expressive; expressing ideas well so that the hearers can be influeneced
fanciful	 	whimsical; visionary; imaginary; produced by imagination; Ex. fanciful scheme
factious	 	inclined to form factions; causing dissension
chassis	 	framework and working parts of an automobile; framework to which components are attached
inopportune	 	untimely; inappropriate or ill-timed; poorly chosen
alcove	 	nook; recess
vendetta	 	blood feud (esp. between two families); CF. Nina Williams
nemesis	 	someone seeking revenge; source of downfall or ruin; CF. Nemesis
accrue	 	come to one as a gain; accumulate over time; come about by addition; Ex. benefits that accrue from scientific research; Ex. interest accruing in a bank account; N. accrual
undertaker	 	funeral director; one whose business is to arrange burials
complementary	 	serving to complete something
jingoist	 	extremely aggressive and militant patriot; warlike chauvinist; N. jingoism: extreme nationalism
aquiline	 	curved; hooked; of or like an eagle; Ex. aquiline nose
lofty	 	very high
mordant	 	biting; sarcastic; stinging; (apprec.) incisive; cutting; Ex. mordant pen/wit
bombast	 	grandiloquent, pompous speech
shift	 	change position or place; exchange (one thing) for another; change in direction or position; Ex. shift the stolen goods; N. group of workers which takes turns with other groups; working period of such a group
deft	 	neat; skillful
homily	 	sermon; tedious moralizing lecture; serious warning; ADJ. homiletic
rankle	 	irritate; fester; annoy
mingle	 	mix together in close association
indeterminate	 	uncertain; not clearly fixed; indefinite
rotundity	 	roundness; sonorousness of speech
enumerate	 	list; mention one by one
congenial	 	pleasant; friendly; in agreement with one's tastes and nature; Ex. congenial weather
gist	 	essence; main point; substance
privation	 	lack of the basic necessities or comforts of life; hardship; want; CF. deprive
cataclysm	 	deluge; upheaval; earthquake; violent and sudden event or change
toxic	 	poisonous; N. toxicity
mutter	 	utter (complaining words) indistinctly in low tones
abjure	 	renounce upon oath
extradition	 	surrender of prisoner by one state to another; Ex. extradition treaty; V. extradite
quirk	 	sudden sharp turn or twist; startling twist; caprice; idiosyncrasy; peculiarity of behavior; Ex. by a quirk of fate
aspire	 	seek to attain (position or status); long for; Ex. aspire to become president; Ex. aspire to/after the leadership
stratagem	 	deceptive scheme; clever trick
arrogance	 	pride; haughtiness; ADJ. arrogant: unpleasantly self-important (with a strong confidence in one's own importance and a lack of respect for other people)
commune	 	small (often rural) community whose members share work and income; V: exchange thoughts or feelings; Ex. commune with nature
forestall	 	prevent by taking action in advance
inundate	 	flood; overflow; submerge; cover completely; Ex. inundated with work
fussy	 	fastidious; finicky; easily upset
estranged	 	separated; alienated; V. estrange: alienate (people in a family); N. estrangement
jetsam	 	things thrown from a ship (to lighten the ship)
bequeath	 	leave to someone by means of a will; hand down in his will; N. bequest
dauntless	 	bold; fearless
lien	 	legal claim or right on a property
congruent	 	in agreement; harmonious; corresponding; coinciding exactly; CF. congruous
expound	 	explain
obtuse	 	blunt; not sharp; stupid; slow in understanding
detrimental	 	harmful; damaging; N. detriment
mangy	 	shabby; wretched; suffering from mange; of bad appearance
putrefy	 	make or become putrid; N. putrefaction
hideous	 	repulsive to the sight; ugly; repugnant; Ex. hideous face/scream
abate	 	subside or moderate
annul	 	make void
egotism	 	tendency to speak or write of oneself excessively; conceit; self-importance
skeptic	 	sceptic; doubter; person who suspends judgment until he has examined the evidence supporting a point of view; ADJ. skeptical; N. skepticism; scepticism
audacious	 	daring; bold; N. audacity
compost	 	mixture of decaying organic matter used as fertilizer; V: put or make compost
heresy	 	opinion contrary to popular belief; opinion contrary to accepted religion; ADJ. heretical; CF. heretic
high-flown	 	highly pretentious or inflated
maniacal	 	raging mad; insane; N. maniac: insane person; CF. mania: disorder of the mind; intense enthusiasm
whorl	 	ring of leaves around stem; ring; circular arrangement; Ex. whorls on the fingers
petulant	 	touchy; peevish; ill-tempered
decimate	 	kill (usually one out of ten or every tenth man); destroy or kill a large part of
resolve	 	decide; settle; solve; separate; make a determined decision; N. resolution
brave	 	face courageously; Ex. brave the storm
viscous	 	(of a liquid) thick and sticky; gluey; viscid; CF. consistency
grovel	 	crawl or creep on ground; remain prostrate; behave in a servile manner
compliance	 	conformity in fulfilling requirements; readiness to yield; disposition to yield to others; V. comply
invalid	 	one incapacitated(disabled) by a chronic illness; ADJ: incapacitated by illness; not valid; null; V: allow to leave (a military force) because of ill-health
spurious	 	false; counterfeit; forged; illogical; Ex. spurious arguments
lechery	 	gross lewdness; lustfulness; ADJ. lecherous; N. lecher: lecherous man
entomology	 	study of insects
molt(moult)	 	periodically shed or cast off hairs or feathers (for replacement by a new growth)
expatiate	 	talk at length; speak or write in detail
tribute	 	tax levied by a ruler; payment made by one nation to another in acknowledgment of submission; mark of respect (such as praise or gift); Ex. pay tribute to
askance	 	with a sideways or indirect look (with disapproval or distruct); Ex. look askance at
dour	 	sullen; gloomy; stubborn
prate	 	talk idly; speak foolishly; boast idly
cardinal	 	chief; most important; N: priest; cardinal number: number that shows quantity rather thatn order
pastry	 	paste of flour and water (eaten when baked)
betroth	 	become engaged to marry
valediction	 	saying farewell; expression of leave-taking
hygiene	 	science and practice of the promotion and preservation of health; ADJ. hygienic: showing careful attention to cleanness (to prevent disease); Ex. hygienic condition
elaboration	 	addition of details; intricacy
homeostasis	 	tendency of a system or organism to maintain relative stability or internal equilibrium; CF. homeo-: constant; Ex. homeotherm
hostage	 	person who is kept as a prisoner by an enemy so that the other side will do what the enemy demands
resentment	 	indignation; bitterness; displeasure; V. resent: feel anger about
palimpsest	 	parchment or piece of writing material used for second time after original writing has been erased
h 7
vaporize	 	turn into vapor (steam, gas, fog, etc.)
lackadaisical	 	lacking interest or effort; lacking purpose or zest; lazy; halfhearted; languid
casualty	 	serious or fatal accident; person killed or wounded in an accident or battle
bulk	 	size or volume (esp. when very large); main part; Ex. The bulk of the work has already been done; ADJ. bulky: having great size
rectitude	 	moral correctness; moral uprightness; moral virtue; correctness of judgment
vainglorious	 	boastful; excessively conceited; N. vainglory: great vanity
filing	 	particle removed by a file
inveigh	 	denounce; utter censure or invective; Ex. inveigh against the evils of drink
pathetic	 	causing sadness, compassion, pity; touching
agnostic	 	one who is skeptical of the existence or knowability of a god or any ultimate reality
supererogatory	 	superfluous; more than needed or demanded
engross	 	occupy fully; absorb
orgy	 	wild drunken revelry; unrestrained indulgence in an activity; Ex. orgy of shopping
feral	 	(of an animal) not domestic; wild
hilarity	 	boisterous mirth(merriment; laughter); ADJ. hilarious: full of laughter
incandescent	 	strikingly bright; shining with intense heat; emitting visible light when heated; Ex. incandescent light bulb; CF. candle
forebears(forbears)	 	ancestors
disenfranchise	 	disfranchise; deprive of a civil right; OP. enfranchise
slink	 	move furtively; ADJ. slinky: stealthy; furtive; sneaky (as in ambush)
besmirch	 	soil; defile; make dirty
brood	 	sit on in order to hatch; think deeply or worry anxiously; N: the young of certain animals; group of young birds hatched at one time
beholden	 	obligated; indebted; owing thanks; obliged or indebted from gratitude
flay	 	strip off skin; plunder; remove the skin from; criticize harshly
sophomoric	 	immature; half-baked; like a sophomore
exculpate	 	clear from blame or guilt
perturb	 	disturb greatly
variegated	 	(esp. of a flower or leaf) many-colored
excerpt	 	selected passage (written or musical) taken from a longer work; V.
insolvent	 	bankrupt; lacking money to pay; N. insolvency
parley	 	conference (between opponents); CF. speak
compendium	 	brief, comprehensive summary; ADJ. compendious
gusty	 	windy
benison	 	blessing
don	 	put on; OP. doff
chaffing	 	bantering; joking
hive	 	box for bees; V: cause to go in a hive
catapult	 	slingshot; hurling machine; V: fire from catapult
aspirant	 	seeker after position or status
magistrate	 	official with power to administer the law
finite	 	limited
supplicant	 	one who supplicates; ADJ.
scrappy	 	quarrelsome
intelligentsia	 	intellectuals; members of the educated elite (often used derogatorily)
crochet	 	make (a piece of needlework) by looping thread with a hooked needle; N. CF. crotchet
epitome	 	perfect example or embodiment; brief summary; Ex. epitome of good manners; V. epitomize: make an epitome of; be an epitome of; embody
vagrant	 	wandering from place to place; roving; stray; moving in a random fashion; Ex. vagrant thoughts; N. vagrancy
falter	 	hesitate; weaken in purpose or action; walk or move unsteadily through weakness; N.
florid	 	ruddy; (of a complexion) reddish; flowery; very ornate; CF. rose
philatelist	 	stamp-collector; N. philately: stamp collecting
grotesque	 	fantastic; comically hideous; strange and unnatural (causing fear or amusement)
avalanche	 	great mass of falling snow and ice
accessible	 	easy to approach; obtainable
inane	 	silly; senseless; Ex. inane remarks; N. inanity
orientation	 	act of finding oneself in society; orienting
acidulous	 	slightly sour (in taste or manner); sharp; caustic
crabbed	 	sour; bad-tempered; peevish; difficult to read as handwriting
lagoon	 	shallow body of water or lake near a sea; lake separated from a sea by sandbars or coral reefs
unprepossessing	 	unattractive
airy	 	of air; high in the air; lofty; immaterial; unreal
acuity	 	sharpness (of mind or senses of sight or hearing)
integrate	 	make whole; combine; make into one unit
dispatch	 	speediness; prompt execution; message sent with all due speed; V: send to a specified destination; finish promptly; kill
knead	 	mix; work dough; mix and work into a uniform mass (with the hands); Ex. knead dough
spry	 	(esp. of older people) vigorously active; nimble
addiction	 	compulsive habitual need
bizarre	 	fantastic; violently contrasting; noticeably odd; strikingly unconventional
humane	 	marked by kindness or consideration; kind and compassionate; humanitarian
sycophant	 	servile flatterer; bootlicker; yes man; ADJ. sycophantic
swear-word	 	word considered offensive; Ex. ``bloody''
sedate	 	composed (with no excitement); grave; V: administer a sedative to; CF. sedative
abet	 	assist usually in doing something wrong; encourage
monograph	 	scholarly article
preternatural	 	beyond what is normal in nature; supernatural; Ex. preternatural strength/forces
jurisdiction	 	right and power to apply the law; authority
despoil	 	plunder; sack; Ex. despoil the village
voluminous	 	having great volume (as of a garment or container); bulky; large
dapper	 	neat and trim (in appearance); (of small men) neat in appearance and quick in movements; neat; spry
sleigh	 	large vehicle drawn by a horse over snow or ice
sullen	 	silently showing ill humor or resentment; dark; gloomy
anathema	 	solemn curse; someone or something regarded as a curse; V. anathematize
destitute	 	extremely poor; lacking means of subsistence; utterly lacking; devoid; Ex. destitute of any experience
dismantle	 	take apart; disassemble
imperative	 	absolutely necessary; that must be done; critically important; expressing command; Ex. It is imperative that; N: something that must be done
disclaim	 	disown; renounce claim to; deny; CF. disclaimer
indoctrinate	 	cause to accept a doctrine without questioning it; Ex. indoctrinated with mindless anti-communism
indigence	 	poverty
interstice	 	narrow space between things
abode	 	dwelling place; home
avuncular	 	of or like an uncle
matin\'ee(matinee)	 	dramatic or musical performance given in the afternoon
welt	 	raised mark from a beating or whipping
strangle	 	kill by choking or suffocating; suppress
flotsam	 	drifting wreckage
eclipse	 	darken; extinguish; outshine; surpass; cause an eclipse
putative	 	supposed; reputed; generally regarded as such; Ex. putative father of the child
gerrymander	 	change voting district lines in order to favor a political party; N. CF. Elbridge Gerry + (sala)mander
implicate	 	incriminate; involve incriminatingly; show to be involved (in a crime); Ex. implicate someone in the crime
h 8
oblivion	 	obscurity; condition of being completely forgotten; forgetfulness
incompatible	 	inharmonious; N. incompatibility
assent	 	agree; accept; N. assessment
momentous	 	very important; N. moment; CF. momentary
seminal	 	related to seed or semen; germinal; creative; providing a basis for further development; influencing future developments; Ex. seminal research in a new field
histrionic	 	theatrical; excessively dramatic or emotional; affected; of actors or acting; N. histrionics: histrionic behavior
stockade	 	wooden enclosure or pen; fixed line of posts used as defensive barrier
stem	 	stop or check (the flow of); Ex. stem the bleeding from the slashed artery; N: main axis of a plant; stalk
vagary	 	capricious happening; caprice; whim; CF. wander
inculcate	 	teach (ideas or principles); instill
countermand	 	cancel; revoke (an order)
insularity	 	narrow-mindedness; isolation; ADJ. insular: of an island; isolated; narrow-minded; CF. peninsula
discriminating	 	able to see differences; discerning; prejudiced; N. discrimination
vouchsafe	 	grant condescendingly; guarantee; Ex. vouchsafe your fair return on your investment
rubble	 	fragments (esp. from a destroyed building)
abeyance	 	suspended action
sate	 	satisfy to the full; satisfy to excess; cloy
asymmetric	 	not identical on both sides of a dividing central line
rote	 	repetition; memorization through repetition without understanding; Ex. learn poetry by rote
immolate	 	offer or kill as a sacrifice (by fire)
malignant	 	tending to cause death; highly injurious; aggressively malevolent; Ex. malignant tumor
dysentery	 	inflammatory disorder of the lower intestinal tract
fray	 	brawl; fight; V: wear away or unravel by rubbing; have loose threads developing; cause to become worn out (a person's temper or nerves); CF. rub
agglomeration	 	collection; heap; V. agglomerate: gather into a rounded mass; N. aggolmeate: jumbled mass; heap
phylum	 	major classification, second to kingdom, of plants and animals; category ranking below a kingdom and above a class; division
hiatus	 	gap; pause; gap or interruption in space or time; break
irrevocable	 	unalterable; irreversible; impossible to revoke
contrivance	 	something contrived; machine or apparatus; clever deceitful plan; scheme
apostate	 	one who abandons his religious faith or political beliefs; N. apostasy
ratify	 	approve formally; confirm; verify
loft	 	room or space under the roof; attic
defray	 	provide for the payment of; undertake the payment of; pay
discerning	 	mentally quick and observant; having insight; perceptive; able to make good judgments; V. discern: perceive
chagrin	 	annoyance and disappointment; vexation (caused by humiliation or injured pride)
magisterial	 	authoritative; imperious; commanding; of a magistrate; Ex. magisterial study of Roman law; Ex. magisterial manner
warp	 	twist out of shape; N.
phenomena	 	observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation; SG. phenomenon: observable fact; very unusual person, thing, or event; marvel; wonder; CF. phenomenons; ADJ. phenomenal: very unusual; extraordinary; of a phenomenon; Ex. phenomenal strength
plaudit	 	praise; enthusiastic approval; round(succession or series) of applause; ADJ. plauditory; CF. applaud
litter	 	waste material thrown away (as bits of paper scattered untidily); V: cover untidily with scattered litter
advent	 	arrival
tenacious	 	holding fast (as to a belief); persistent
touchstone	 	stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; criterion; standard
resound	 	(of a place) be filled with sound; (of a sound) sound loudly; sound back; echo; Ex. hall resounded with laughter
aperture	 	opening; hole; adjustable opening in a camera that limits the amount of light
coalition	 	partnership; league; union of separate political parties
defame	 	harm someone's reputation; malign; speak evil of; slander; N. defamation; ADJ. defamatory
nutrition	 	process of nourishing or being nourished; CF. malnutrition
sustenance	 	sustaining; means of livelihood, support, food, nourishment; something that maintains life; food
waive	 	give up temporarily; yield; N. waiver: waiving a right or claim; document that waives a right or claim
facilitate	 	help bring about; make less difficult
glean	 	gather leavings; gather grain left behind by reapers; gather bit by bit (facts or information) often with difficulty
novelty	 	something new; newness; ADJ. novel: new; original
avenge	 	take vengence for something or on behalf of someone; Ex. They avenged his death by burning the village; Ex. He swore to avenge his brother; Ex. They avenged themselves on their enemy.
emanate	 	issue forth; come out
shrivel	 	make or become shrunken and wrinkled (often by drying)
swell	 	long wave of water that moves continuously without breaking; V.
misconduct	 	immoral behavior; bad management; V.
fell	 	cruel; (of a disease) deadly
swear	 	vow; promise; use profane oaths; use offensive words
immune	 	resistant to; free or exempt from; N. immunity
decry	 	express strong disapproval of; condemn openly (something dangerous to the public); disparage; Ex. decry the violence of modern films
nomenclature	 	terminology(system of specialized words); system of names or naming things
bait	 	harass; tease; torment; Ex. badger baiting; N: food or other lure used to catch fish or trap animals
exposure	 	risk, particularly of being exposed to disease or to the elements; unmasking; act of laying something open; Ex. exposure of governmental corruption
ruminant	 	animal that ruminates; ADJ.
scorch	 	sear; N.
stock	 	standard; kept regularly in stock or supply; typical; routine; common; Ex. stock sizes of paper; Ex. stock excuse/character; N: goods for sale in a shop; OP. unique
imperceptible	 	unnoticeable; impossible to perceive; undetectable
collusion	 	conspiring in a fraudulent scheme to cheat or deceive others; V. collude
depravity	 	extreme corruption; wickedness; V. deprave
quorum	 	minimal number of members necessary to conduct a meeting
allude	 	refer indirectly; N. allusion: indirect reference
pendulous	 	hanging; suspended
pith	 	core or marrow; spongelike substance in the center of stems; essence; substance
psychosomatic	 	of the influence of the mind on the body (esp. with respect to disease)
nominal	 	in name only; of a name; trifling; (of a sum of money) very small; CF. nominate: propose as a candidate; appoint
soar	 	rise or fly high in the air; Ex. The rocket soared into the sky.
marred	 	damaged; disfigured; V. mar: spoil; disfigure
etymology	 	study of word parts; study of the origins of words
reprise	 	musical repetition; repeating of a piece of music; repeat performance; recurrent action; Ex. reprise in the finale; Ex. constant reprises
mammal	 	vertebrate animal whose female suckles its young
allure	 	entice; attract; tempt
fracas	 	brawl(noisy quarrel or fight) in which a number of people take part; melee
embitter	 	make bitter; fill with painful or bitter feelings; make sad and angry; Ex. He was embittered by many disappointments.
saunter	 	stroll(go for a leisurely walk) slowly; N.
determinate	 	having a fixed order of procedure; precisely defined; invariable; fixed; conclusive; final
alimentary	 	supplying nourishment
adore	  love deeply and respect highly 
condiments	 	seasonings; spices
forlorn	 	sad and lonely; wretched; desolate
certitude	 	certainty
outcast	 	one that has been excluded from a society; ADJ.
nether	 	lower; Ex. nether garments/regions
comity	 	courtesy; civility; Ex. comity of nations
bout	 	match; short period of great activity; Ex. wrestling bout; bout of drinking/flu
fell	 	cut or knock down (a tree or a person); bring down (with a missile)
barefaced	 	shameless and noticeable; blatant; bold; unconcealed; having no covering on the face; Ex. barefaced lie
h 9
demented	 	insane
subsume	 	include (as a member of a group); encompass
shun	 	keep away from; avoid deliberately; Ex. She has been shunned by her neighbors.
unimpeachable	 	that cannot be impeached; beyond doubt or question; blameless and exemplary
retard	 	delay (in development); ADJ. retarded: (as of a child) slower in development
toga	 	Roman outer robe
decree	 	authoritative order; edict; judgment of a court of law; V: order or judge by decree
conversant	 	familiar with; having knowledge of
douse	 	plunge into water or liquid; dip; immerse; drench; wet throughly; extinguish; throw water over; dowse
brooch	 	ornamental clasp; pin
indict	 	charge; N. indictment
gossamer	 	sheer; very light; like cobwebs; N: soft and sheer fabric; cobweb
pyromaniac	 	person with an insane desire to set things on fire
husband	 	use sparingly; conserve; save; Ex. husband one's energy; CF. house holder
ovoid	 	egg-shaped; CF. ovum; CF. ovulate
desecrate	 	profane; violate the sanctity of
relinquish	 	give up something (with reluctance); yield; release; Ex. relinquish power/the claim to the land/his hold on my arm
pervasive	 	spread throughout; V. pervade: (of smells, ideas, feelings) spread throughout; charge; permeate
ineffable	 	unutterable; not to be uttered; taboo; that cannot be expressed in speech; indescribable; unspeakable; inexpressible; Ex. ineffable name/joy
abstract	 	theoretical; not concrete; nonrepresentational
disproportion	 	lack of proportion (between the parts); ADJ. disproportionate
crevice	 	crack; fissure
extenuate	 	weaken; mitigate; lessen the seriousness of (bad behavior)
apathy	 	lack of caring; indifference; lack of concern or interest in important matters; Ex. He was sunk in apathy after his failure; ADJ. apathetic
secrete	 	conceal; hide away or cache; produce and release a substance into an organism; CF. secretive
meteoric	 	like a meteor; swift; momentarily brilliant; Ex. meteoric rise to fame; N. meteor
vertex	 	summit; highest point; PL. vertices
raspy	 	making a harsh noise; grating; harsh
authoritative	 	having the weight of authority; regarded as providing knowledge that can be trusted; reliable; peremptory and dictatorial; Ex. authoritative dictionary/manner; CF. definitive
tatter	 	torn piece of cloth; ADJ. tattered: (of clothes) old and torn; (of a person) dressed in old torn clothes
discordant	 	not harmonious; conflicting
recidivism	 	habitual return to crime (even after being punished); N. recidivist
commonplace	 	ordinary; N: something ordinary or common; trite remark
pandemic	 	widespread; affecting the majority of people; N: pandemic disease; CF. all people
prodigious	 	enormous; marvelous; extraordinary; Ex. prodigious amount/memory
glib	 	fluent (with insincerity or superficiality); facile; slick
effusion	 	pouring forth; unrestrained outpouring of feeling; V. effuse: pour out; ADJ. effusive: pouring forth; gushing
imprecation	 	curse; swearword
replicate	 	reproduce; duplicate
hibernal	 	wintry; wintery; of or like winter
unsullied	 	untarnished; CF. sully
figure	 	written symbols; number; amount represented in numbers; outline or silhouette of a thing or human body; person (well-known); impression; diagram; pattern; group in a dance; Ex. figure of speech; V. calculate with numbers; adorn with figures; appear; consider; Ex. My name did not figure in the list.
goad	 	urge on; drive with a goad; cause (someone) to do something by continued annoyance; Ex. They goaded him into doing it by saying he was a coward; N: sharp-pointed stick for driving cattle; stimulus; CF. annoy continually
sow	 	plant or scatter seed
requite	 	make return for; repay; reciprocate; revenge; N. requittal
flicker	 	burn unsteadily or fitfully; move waveringly; N: flickering movement or light; brief sensation; Ex. flicker of excitement
reciprocal	 	mutual; given and received in return; exchangeable; interacting; Ex. reciprocal trade agreement
laud	 	praise; N. ADJ. laudable: praiseworthy; ADJ. laudatory: expressing praise
expunge	 	cancel; remove a word or name (from a book or list); erase
notch	 	V-shaped cut in a surface; V.
translucent	 	partly transparent
repellent	 	driving away; disgusting; offensive; repulsive; unattractive; N.
institution	 	instituting; (building for the) organization; established custom, practice, or relationship in a society; mental hospital; Ex. institution of marriage
obstinate	 	stubborn; hard to control or treat; Ex. obstinate cough; N. obstinacy
riveting	 	holding one's attention; absorbing; engrossing
formality	 	ceremonious quality; ceremonious adherence to rules; something done just for form's sake; Ex. mere formality
hinterlands	 	back country; inner part of a country; OP. foreland
satyr	 	half-human, half-bestial being in the court of Dionysus (resembling a goat), portrayed as wanton(unrestrained) and cunning; lecher; CF. faun; CF. goat: lecherous man
throttle	 	strangle; regulate the speed of with a throttle; N: valve that regulates the flow; CF. throat ?
faction	 	party; clique (within a large group); dissension
pinion	 	restrain or immobilize by binding the wings or legs; N: bird's wing
filch	 	steal (things of small value)
sportive	 	playful; frolicsome; merry; CF. sport: play or frolic; CF. sportsmanlike
spontaneity	 	lack of premeditation; naturalness; freedom from constraint; ADJ. spontaneous: self-generated; unpremeditated; happening without being planned
concede	 	admit; acknowledge as being true (often reluctantly); yield; grant; Ex. concede a goal
galleon	 	large three-masted sailing ship
dissemble	 	disguise; hide the real nature of; pretend
missive	 	letter; written statement; CF. sent
temporize	 	gain time as by postponing an action; avoid committing oneself
veracity	 	truthfulness; adherence to the truth
valedictory	 	pertaining to farewell; N: farewell address (esp. at graduation exercises)
tithe	 	tax of one-tenth (contributed to a church); V: pay a tithe
lexicographer	 	compiler of a dictionary; CF. lexicography: work of compiling a dictionary
plumage	 	feathers of a bird; 
molecule	 	the smallest particle (one or more atoms) of a substance that has all the properties of that substance
turmoil	 	extreme confusion; great commotion and confusion; Ex. throw the country into turmoil
endue	 	provide with some quality; endow
parsimony	 	stinginess; excessive frugality; ADJ. parsimonious
gouge	 	tear out; cut out (as if with a gouge); Ex. gouge his eyes out; N: chisel for cutting out hollow areas in wood
homely	 	not good-looking; unattractive
trajectory	 	path taken by a projectile; Ex. trajectory of a bullet
gallows	 	framework from which a noose is suspended (used for execution by hanging)
censorious	 	severely critical
aggregate	 	sum; total; ADJ. V: gather into a mass or whole; accumulate; add up to; Ex. aggregate 100 dollars
gnarled	 	twisted
beeline	 	direct quick route
baroque	 	highly ornate
anecdote	 	short story of an amusing or interesting event
serendipity	 	gift for finding valuable things by accident; accidental good fortune or luck; CF. The Three Princes of Serendip
lackluster	 	lacking luster(shine; gloss); dull
flag	 	droop; grow feeble; decline in vigor or strength; ADJ. flagging; CF. unflagging
egoism	 	excessive interest in one's self; belief that one should be interested in one's self rather than in others; selfishness; ADJ. egoistic, egoistical
gazette	 	official periodical publication; newspaper
scurvy	 	contemptible; despicable; N: disease caused by deficiency of Vitamin C
stringent	 	(of rules) binding; rigid; marked by scarcity of money; Ex. stringent economic conditions
unwitting	 	not knowing; unaware; unintentional; Ex. She was their unwitting accomplice; Ex. unwitting insult; CF. wit: know
patois	 	local or provincial dialect
h 10
exact	 	demand and obtain by force; Ex. exact a promise from him; N. exaction
emaciated	 	thin and wasted (from hunger or illness)
guileless	 	without deceit
centaur	 	mythical figure, half man and half horse
droop	 	bend or hang downward; become weakened; Ex. His shoulders drooped with tiredness; N.
finished	 	properly made and complete; Ex. finished product/performance
imbibe	 	drink in
dissertation	 	formal essay; treatise
discursive	 	(of a person or writing) digressing; rambling (without any clear plan)
dappled	 	spotted
servitude	 	slavery; compulsory labor imposed as a punishment
humor	 	indulge; comply with the wishes of; N. quality that makes something amusing; state of mind; mood; Ex. in a bad humor; Ex. out of humor
drudgery	 	hard unpleasant work; menial work
apex	 	tip; summit; climax; highest point
lancet	 	small surgical tool for making incisions
smart	 	intelligent; quick and energetic; fashionable; Ex. smart pace/restaurant; V: cause or feel a sharp pain; N: smarting pain
foul	 	very bad or disagreeable; very dirty; Ex. foul smell/flavor/temper/language/air/deed/weather/means; N. act against the rules; V. make or become foul; commit a foul
negate	 	cancel out; nullify; cause to have no effect; deny; N. negation
comestible	 	something fit to be eaten
plump	 	pleasantly fat; nicely rounded
interdict	 	prohibit; forbid; N.
urgent	 	compelling immediate action; pressing; persistent; importunate; Ex. urgent in his demands
isotope	 	varying from of an element
gusto	 	eager enjoyment; zest; enthusiasm
nihilist	 	one who considers traditional beliefs to be groundless and existence meaningless; absolute skeptic; revolutionary terrorist; CF. nihilism: belief that nothing has meaning or value; belief that destruction of existing political or social institutions is necessary for future improvement
obliterate	 	destroy completely; wipe out; Ex. obliterate the village
sleek	 	smooth and shining (as from good health); V.
relapse	 	return to a former state (esp. after improvement); N.
acetic	 	vinegary
frivolous	 	lacking in seriousness; flippant; self-indulgently carefree; unworthy of serious attention; relatively unimportant; trivial
anomaly	 	irregularity
insouciant	 	without concern or care; unconcerned; indifferent
commodious	 	spacious and comfortable
prize	 	pry; move with a lever; value highly; esteem; Ex. his most prized possession; N: something captured during war-time (esp. an enemy ship)
rapture	 	great joy and delight; ecstasy; ADJ. rapturous
grotto	 	small cavern
macerate	 	soften by soaking in liquid; waste away; Ex. macerate powdered wood to make paper
incite	 	arouse to action; goad; motivate; induce to exist; Ex. incite a riot/the crowd to rebellion
crass	 	very unrefined; grossly insensible; crude and undiscriminating; Ex. crass behavior
yore	 	time long past; Ex. in the days of yore
calorific	 	heat-producing; N. calorie
rake	 	immoral or dissolute person
invective	 	abuse
judicious	 	sound on judgment; wise
categorical	 	without exceptions; made without any doubt in mind; unqualified; absolute
chafe	 	warm by rubbing; make sore by rubbing; N.
captious	 	faultfinding; too critical
expropriate	 	take possession of (often for public use and without payment)
palm	 	conceal in the palm of the hand; palm off: pass off; Ex. palm off some bad oranges onto the lady/the painting as a real Renoir
intermediary	 	intermediate; acting as a mediator; N: mediator; go-between
implode	 	burst inward; CF. vaccum tube
credo	 	creed
malapropism	 	comic misuse of a word; CF. Mrs. Malaprop
pretension	 	pretentiousness; claim (without foundation); Ex. I make no pretensions to skill as an artist.
stint	 	set limits in amount or number; be thrifty; ADJ. stinting, unstinting; CF. stint:savings
lubricate	 	apply a lubricant to; N. lubricant: substance that reduces friction
advert	 	refer
comely	 	attractive; agreeable; having a pleasing appearance
ambivalence	 	the state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes or opinions
bereaved	 	deprived of (someone beloved through death)
glutton	 	someone who eats too much; ADJ. gluttonous: given to gluttony; greedy; CF. gluttony: habit of eating too much
lurk	 	stealthily lie in waiting; slink; exist unperceived
profound	 	deep; not superficial; complete; Ex. profound thinker/remark/silence/deafness; N. profundity
stipend	 	pay for services
mountebank	 	charlatan; boastful pretender
parchment	 	writing material made from the skin of a sheep or goat
cursory	 	casual; hastily done with little attention to detail
vilify	 	slander; speak evil of; N. vilification
doom	 	condemnation to a severe penalty; ruin; fate (esp. a tragic or ruinous one); V.
apposite	 	appropriate; fitting
hem	 	surround tightly so that movement is impossible; Ex. hem in; N.
venom	 	poison (of an animal); hatred; Ex. remarks full of venom; ADJ. venomous
retort	 	quick sharp reply; V.
saline	 	salty
plausible	 	conceivably true; having a show of truth but open to doubt; specious
gall	 	annoy; exasperate; chafe; N: skin sore caused by rubbing (as on the skin of a horse); exasperation
foster	 	rear; bring up (for a certain period only); encourage; promote the development of (feelings or ideas); Ex. help foster friendly relations; ADJ: giving parental care although not related by blood; Ex. foster parents
mortician	 	undertaker; CF. death
legerdemain	 	sleight(dexterity) of hand; CF. light of hand
obsessive	 	related to thinking about something constantly; of an obsession; preoccupying; N. obsession: compulsive preoccupation with a fixed idea; compulsive idea; V. obsess: preoccupy the mind of excessively
respiration	 	breathing; exhalation; ADJ. respiratory
charisma	 	divine gift; great popular charm or appeal; magnetism
empirical	 	based on experience
causal	 	implying a cause-and-effect relationship; N. causality
barterer	 	trader; V. barter: trade; exchange good for other goods rather than money
fundamental	 	basic; primary; essential
hostility	 	unfriendliness; hatred; enmity; ADJ. hostile
breed	 	produce young; rear; bring up; produce (an undesirable condition); N: kind or sort of animal or plant
gravity	 	seriousness; ADJ. grave
enact	 	make (a bill) into law
demur	 	object (because of doubts, scruples); raise an objection (showing qualms); hesitate; Ex. demur at the idea of working on Sunday
manumit	 	emancipate; free from slavery or bondage
omnipresent	 	universally present; ubiquitous
condole	 	express condolences; N. condolence: sympathy for someone who has experienced great sorrow
sour	 	having a sharp or acid taste; acid; tart; bad-tempered; V.
relic	 	surviving remnant (from an extinct culture); memento; keepsake; relics: corpse; Ex. ancient relics; Ex. relics of his travel; Ex. His relics are buried at X.
reckon	 	count; calculate; regard as; think; suppose
h 11
hoax	 	trick which makes someone take action; practical joke; Ex. hoax mail; V.
disparage	 	belittle
sphinx-like	 	enigmatic; mysterious
base	 	contemptible; morally bad; inferior in value or quality; Ex. base motives/conduct; Ex. base metal such as iron
extant	 	(of something written or painted) still in existence
puny	 	tiny; weak; insignificant
epistemologist	 	philosopher who studies the nature of knowledge; N. epistemology
sprightly	 	lively
procurement	 	obtaining; V. procure: obtain by effort; obtain (a prostitute) for another
eugenic	 	pertaining to the improvement of race; N. eugenics: study of hereditary improvement of the human race
pedant	 	scholar who overemphasizes book learning, trivial details of learning, or technicalities
hamper	 	obstruct; prevent the free movement of; N: 식료품이나 의복 등을 담는 바구니 
champion	 	support militantly; fight for; N: person who fights for or supports strongly (a principle, movement, person, etc.)
jargon	 	language used by special group; technical terminology; gibberish; nonsensical or incoherent talk
intuition	 	immediate insight; power of knowing without reasoning; ADJ. intuitive; V. intuit: know by intuition
orthography	 	correct spelling; CF. ortho-: straight; correct; Ex. orthodontics
rustic	 	pertaining to country people; unsophisticated; simple; crude; uncouth; (of furniture) rough with the bark left on; N. rural person; rustic person
diffuse	 	wordy; verbose; rambling; spread out (like a gas); V: spread out in all directions; disperse; N. diffusion; CF. suffuse
taper	 	very thin candle; gradual decrease in the width of a long object; V. make or become gradually narrower toward one end
bearing	 	deportment; connection
ideology	 	system of ideas characteristic of a group or culture
sadistic	 	inclined to cruelty; N. sadism: delight in cruelty
malady	 	illness
lance	 	pierce with a lance; cut into; N: spearlike weapon
advocacy	 	support; active pleading on behalf of someone or something
trek	 	travel; journey; V: make a long difficult journey
wage	 	begin and continue (a war)
primogeniture	 	seniority by birth; state of being the first-born child; right of the eldest child (to inherit the entire property of one or both parents)
execrable	 	very bad; detestable
catharsis	 	purging or cleansing of any passage of the body; purging and weakening of strong emotions as a result of experiencing a dramatic work of art
malign	 	speak evil of; bad-mouth(criticize spitefully); defame; ADJ: harmful; Ex. malign influence
resumption	 	taking up again; recommencement; V. resume: begin or take up again; take or occupy again; Ex. Kindly resume your seats.
denounce	 	condemn; criticize; N. denunciation
carat(karat)	 	unit of weight for precious stones; measure of the purity of gold
enmity	 	ill will; hatred; hostility
demagogue	 	person who appeals to people's prejudice; false leader of people; CF. demagoguery
misogynist	 	hater of woman; CF. misogyny
lottery	 	contest in which winners are selected in a drawing of lots
buffoon	 	stupid person; clown
horticultural	 	pertaining to cultivation of gardens; N. horticulture: science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants; CF. agriculture: science or art of farming or growing crops
depredation	 	plundering; destruction
headstrong	 	willful; stubborn; unyielding; determined to have one's own way; CF. no 'excessive'
pellucid	 	transparent; limpid(crystal clear); clear in meaning; easy to understand
cathartic	 	purgative; medicine that causes the bowels to empty; ADJ.
knell	 	tolling of a bell especially to indicate a funeral, disaster, etc.; sound of the funeral bell; V.
welter	 	confusion; turmoil; confused mass; bewildering jumble; Ex. welter of data
jaundice	 	medical condition in which the skin, the white part of the eyes, etc. turn yellow; V: affect with jaundice; affect with prejudice, envy, or hostility; bias
deleterious	 	harmful
insuperable	 	insurmountable; unbeatable; Ex. insuperable difficulties
irksome	 	annoying; tedious; V. irk: annoy
component	 	element; ingredient
scintillate	 	sparkle; flash; be animated; be full of life; Ex. scintillating conversation
corpus	 	collection (of writings or information); Ex. the corpus of Shakespear's works; Cf. corpse
weird	 	eerie; strange; unnatural
dawdle	 	loiter; hang around; waste time doing nothing
nascent	 	incipient; coming into being or existence; Ex. nascent ability in music
valid	 	logically convincing; sound; legally acceptable; effective; Ex. valid reasoning/passport
shambles	 	(place or scene of) complete disorder or ruin; wreck; mess; Ex. After the hurricane, the coast was a shambles.
gloss	 	brief explanation note or translation of a difficult expression; V.
commandeer	 	take (private property) for military use without needing permission or giving payment; draft for military purposes
rig	 	arrangement of masts and sails; V: equip (a ship) with rigging; ADJ. rigging: ropes that hold up a ship's sails
disbar	 	make (a lawyer) leave the bar or the legal profession
fitful	 	spasmodic; intermittent; irregular
altercation	 	noisy quarrel
apropos	 	with reference to; regarding; Ex. remarks apropos (of) the present situation; ADJ. ADV.
checkered(chequered)	 	marked by great changes in fortune; with many changes of fortuene; CF. checked: having a pattern of squares
insinuate	 	hint; imply; suggest indirectly; creep in; introduce or insert (oneself) by artful means; Ex. insinuate himself into the boss's favor; CF. ingratiate
muted	 	silent; muffled; toned down; Ex. muted traffic noise
dys-	 	abnormal; impaired
cornice	 	projecting molding on building (usually above columns or pillars); 처마 장식
alchemy	 	medieval chemistry
temper	 	moderate; make less severe; tone down or restrain; toughen (steel) as by alternate heating and cooling
nefarious	 	very wicked
mutilate	 	maim; injure lastingly; deprive of a limb or an essential part
infernal	 	pertaining to hell; devilish; N. inferno: place of fiery heat or destruction
inflated	 	exaggerated; pompous; enlarged (with air or gas)
polyglot	 	speaking several languages; multilingual; Ex. polyglot person/society; N.
hail	 	frozen rain drop; V: salute or greet; precipitate hail
bent	 	determined; Ex. bent on advancing in the business; N: natural talent or inclination
vindictive	 	disposed to revenge; vengeful; out for revenge; spiteful; intended to cause harm; malicious; Ex. vindictive streak
perfunctory	 	done routinely and with little care; superficial; not thorough; lacking interest, care, or enthusiasm; Ex. perfunctory kiss
facade(fa\c{c}ade)	 	front or face (of building); superficial or false appearance
bawdy	 	indecent; obscene; about sex in a rude funny way; CF. bawd
palliate	 	ease pain (without curing); make less severe or offensive (a crime or illness)
equitable	 	fair; impartial; OP. inequitable
prophetic	 	of a prophet or prophecy; having to do with predicting the future; N. prophecy; V. prophesy; N. prophet
impassive	 	without feeling; expressionless; imperturbable; stoical; Ex. impassive face
erode	 	eat away; wear away gradually by abrasion; Ex. The sea erodes the rocks.
provincial	 	pertaining to a province; limited in outlook; narrow; unsophisticated
trickle	 	flow in drops or in a thin stream; N.
frisk	 	move about playfully; froric; ADJ. frisky: playful
explicit	 	totally clear; definite; outspoken
purse	 	pucker; contract (lips) into wrinkles; N: wallet
engender	 	cause; produce; give rise to
queasy	 	experiencing nausea; nauseated; easily nauseated; squeamish; Ex. feel a little queasy
bestial	 	beastlike; brutal; inhuman; very cruel
din	 	continued loud noise; V: make a din; instill by wearying repetition
h 12
belie	 	contradict; give a false impression; disguise; Ex. The poor sales belied our high hopes; Ex. Her smile belies her true feeling of displeasure.
rehabilitate	 	restore to proper condition (health or useful life); restore the former rank of
bland	 	soothing or mild (food); agreeable; causing no trouble or offence
compulsion	 	compelling; strong desire that is difficult to control; irresistible impulse
venison	 	meat of a deer; CF. cow: beef; CF. pig: pork, ham, bacon; CF. calf: veal; CF. sheep: mutton; CF. lamb: lamb
euphoria	 	feeling of exaggerated or unfounded(ungrounded; baseless) well-being; feeling of great happiness or well-being (when unreasonable); ADJ. euphoriaric
tumid	 	(of a part of the body) swollen; distended; bombastic; pompous
tempo	 	speed of music
scapegoat	 	someone who bears the blame for others; whipping boy; CF. escape+goat
shove	 	push forward; push roughly; Ex. pushing and shoving to get on the bus; N.
tensile	 	capable of being stretched; of tension; Ex. tensile rubber
bound	 	leap or spring; limit or confine; constitute the limit of; Ex. bounded by Canada; N: leap or jumping; boundary; ADJ: certain; having a duty to do something (legally or morally); confined by bonds; Ex. We are bound to be late; Ex. I am bound to say my opinion; CF. bounce, rebound
tutelary	 	protective; pertaining to a guardianship; Ex. tutelary deities
odyssey	 	long, eventful, adventurous journey
abstemious	 	sparing in eating and drinking; temperate
gale	 	windstorm; gust of wind; emotional outburst (laughters, tears); Ex. gale of laughter
sentimental	 	swayed by sentiment; appealing to the sentiments
barb	 	sharp projection from fishhook, arrow, or other object; openly cutting remark
beneficial	 	helpful; useful; advantageous
billow	 	large wave of water; a great swell or surge (of smoke); V: surge, swell, roll in billows
verisimilar	 	having the appearance of truth or reality; probable or likely to be true; plausible
ravage	 	devastate; plunder; despoil; Ex. crops ravaged by storms
disconsolate	 	hopelessly sad (at the loss of something)
outmoded	 	no longer in fashion or use; no longer stylish; old-fashioned
ruminate	 	chew over and over (mentally or, like cows, physically); mull over(ponder)
epigram	 	witty thought or saying, usually short
mealymouthed	 	indirect in speech (when something unpleasant must be said); hypocritical; evasive
unerringly	 	infallibly; ADJ. unerring: making no mistakes
arcane	 	esoteric; secret; mysterious; known only to the initiated; Ex. arcane ritual; Ex. arcane process closed to the uninitiated listener
founder	 	person who establishes (an organization or business)
disgruntle	 	make discontented
monastic	 	related to monks or monasteries; removed from worldly concerns
unfaltering	 	steadfast; firm; not changing
porous	 	full of pores; like a sieve
snip	 	short quick cut with scissors; V: cut with scissors
canto	 	division of a long poem
elliptical	 	elliptic; oval; of an ellipse; containing an ellipsis; ambiguous either purposely or because key words have been left out
tractable	 	docile; easily managed; (of something) easily changed or molded; N. tractability
tantamount	 	equivalent in effect or value; Ex. This invasion is tantamount to a declaration of war; CF. amount
abbreviate	 	shorten
superfluous	 	excessive; overabundant; unnecessary; N. superfluity
unassuming	 	modest; Ex. the champion's unassuming manner
mannerism	 	distinctive behavioral trait; affected style in art (according to a set of styles)
inalienable	 	not to be taken away; nontransferable; Ex. inalienable rights
ephemeral	 	short-lived; fleeting
trough	 	long narrow container for feeding farm animals; lowest point (of a wave, business cycle, etc.); long narrow depression as between waves
morbid	 	given to unwholesome or unhealthy thought; moody; characteristic of disease; Ex. morbid curiosity; N. morbidity; CF. disease
grandiose	 	affectedly grand; pretentious; high-flown; ridiculously exaggerated; impressive; great in size or scope; grand; Ex. grandiose ideas
itinerant	 	wandering; traveling from place to place (to perform work); Ex. itinerant preacher
onslaught	 	vicious assault; fierce attack; Ex. unexpected onslaught of the enemy
executor	 	person designated to execute the terms of a will; 예술 작품의 제작자
verbalize	 	put into words; ADJ. verbal: of words; spoken rather than written; oral; of a verb
exemplify	 	show by example; furnish an example; serve as an example of; Ex. His pictures exemplify that sort of painting.
expostulation	 	protest; remonstrance; reasoning with someone to correct or dissuade; V. expostulate
temerity	 	boldness; nerve; rashness; Ex. temerity to ask for a pay increase after only three day's work
misanthrope	 	one who hates mankind; misanthropist
manipulate	 	operate with one's hands; control or play upon (people, forces, etc.) artfully; maneuver; Ex. how to manipulate publicity and men; ADJ. manipulative
gall	 	bitterness of feeling; nerve; effrontery; 담즙(bile); CF. gall bladder
obloquy	 	slander; disgrace; infamy
tint	 	slight degree of color; V: give a tint to
avarice	 	greediness for wealth
flutter	 	(of a bird with large wings) wave (the wings) lightly, rapidly, and irregularly; vibrate rapidly or erratically; fly by waving quickly; flitter; N.
transpire	 	(of a fact) become known; be revealed; happen; give off (watery waste matter) through pores
gracious	 	kind in a generous way (to someone less important)
console	 	lessen sadness or disappointment; give comfort; allay the sorrow of; N. consolation
bravado	 	swagger; assumed air of defiance; false show of bravery
unsavory	 	distasteful; disagreeable; morally offensive; Ex. unsavory activity/reputation
claustrophobia	 	fear of being locked in
dispirited	 	lacking in spirit
historical	 	connected with history; based on events in history (whether regarded as important or not)
circuit	 	closed circular line around an area; circumference; regularly repeated journey from place to place
elaborate	 	work out carefully; add more detail or information; ADJ.
censure	 	blame; criticize; express strong disapproval; N: severe criticism; strong disapproval
vampire	 	ghostly being that sucks the blood of the living
obnoxious	 	offensive; disagreeable; Ex. obnoxious smell
cubicle	 	small chamber used for sleeping or work
residual	 	remaining; left over; of a residue; N: residue
vogue	 	popular fashion; Ex. Jeans became the vogue.
cardiologist	 	doctor specializing in ailments of the heart
purveyor	 	furnisher of foodstuffs; caterer; V. purvey: supply (eg. food); furnish; CF. provide
spatial	 	relating to space
trance	 	hypnotic state; ecstatic state; detachment from one's physical surrounding (as in contemplation or daydreaming); CF. transition
frail	 	weak; N. frailty
incorporeal	 	without a material body; insubstantial
sear	 	burn the surface of; char or burn; brand; parch; cause (a plant) to wither
chimerical	 	fantastically improbable; highly unrealistic; N. chimera: unreal fancy; fire-breathing female creature
megalomania	 	mania for doing grandiose things; mental disorder characterized by delusions of wealth, power, or importance
caliber	 	ability; quality; diameter of the inside of a round cylinder; Ex. work of very high caliber
discord	 	conflict; lack of harmony; dissonance (when musical notes are played)
insubordination	 	disobedience; rebelliousness; ADJ. insubordinate
granary	 	storehouse for grain
moratorium	 	legal delay of payment or action; Ex. declare moratorium on the building of new houses
intolerant	 	not willing to accept ways of thinking different from one's own; CF. tolerant; CF. tolerate
contest	 	dispute; argue about the rightness of; compete for; try to win; Ex. contest the election results; Ex. contest a seat in Parliament; N.
natty	 	neatly or smartly dressed; dapper; smart; Ex. natty dresser
uxorious	 	excessively submissive or devoted to one's wife; CF. uxor: wife
reproach	 	blame (not angrily but sadly); express disapproval or disappointment; N. ADJ. reproachful
h 13
onus	 	burden; responsibility
rooster	 	cock; adult male chicken
beguile	 	deceive; mislead or delude; cheat; pass time pleasantly; charm or attract; Ex. beguiling smile
herbivorous	 	grain-eating; CF. herbivore
battalion	 	army unit made up of four or more companies
academic	 	related to a school; not practical or directly useful
ambience	 	environment; atmosphere; Ex. restraurant with a pleasant ambience; ADJ. ambient: completely surrounding; Ex. ambient temperature
perfidious	 	treacherous; disloyal; N. perfidy: treachery
wring	 	twist (to extract liquid); extract by twisting; wrench painfully (necks or hands)
dearth	 	scarcity
deport	 	send out of the country; behave; N. deportation, deportment
superannuated	 	retired or disqualified because of age; outmoded; obsolete
wag	 	shake repeatedly from side to side; Ex. The dog wagged its tail; N: humorous person; wit
bemused	 	confused; lost in thought; preoccupied
probe	 	explore with a probe or tools; investigate; N: slender instrument used to explore a wound or body cavity; device designed to investigate an unknown region; thorough investigation; Ex. space probe
wreak	 	inflict; Ex. wreak one's vengeance on
swathe	 	swath; wrap around; bandage; Ex. one's head swathed in bandages
choir	 	group of people who sing together (esp. during religious services); place for choir
infringe	 	violate (a law); encroach (the right of another person)
conundrum	 	riddle; difficult problem
premeditate	 	plan in advance; Ex. premeditated murder
pillage	 	plunder
pen	 	fenced enclosure for animals; confining space; Ex. sheep pen; V: confine in a pen; enclose
spangle	 	small shiny metallic piece sewn to clothing for ornamentation
avantgarde	 	group of artists whose work is based on the newest ideas and methods; CF. vanguard
convention	 	social or moral custom; established practice; formal meeting; international agreement
debilitate	 	weaken (esp. through heat, hunger, illness); enfeeble
speck	 	small piece or mark; Ex. speck of dust in the eye
unctuous	 	oily; bland; insincerely suave
effete	 	having lost one's original power; barren; worn out; exhausted
epaulet(epaulette)	 	ornament worn on the shoulder (of a uniform, etc.)
clipper	 	sailing vessel built for great speed
oculist	 	physician who specializes in treatment of the eyes
rabble	 	mob; noisy crowd
habituate	 	accustom or familiarize; addict
broil	 	cook by direct heat; N.
ingratiate	 	become popular with; bring (oneself) in favor of another; Ex. ingratiate himself with the boss
accommodate	 	oblige or help someone; adjust or bring into harmony; adapt; make enough space for; ADJ. accommodative; CF. accomodating: helpful and obliging
cognizance	 	knowledge; ADJ. cognizant; having knowledge; aware
prolong	 	lengthen; extend; draw out
herd	 	group of animals; crowd; one who looks after a herd; Ex. shepherd/goatherd; Ex. herd instinct; Ex. herdsman; V: come together in a herd; look after a herd; Ex. herd cattle
equanimity	 	calmness of temperament; composure
lethal	 	deadly
apoplexy	 	stroke; loss of consciousness caused by too much blood in the brain
fauna	 	animals of a period or region; CF. flora
appreciate	 	be thankful for; increase in worth; be thoroughly conscious of; ADJ. appreciable: enough to be felt; Ex. appreciable difference
intransigence	 	refusal of any compromise; stubbornness; ADJ. intransigent: uncompromising
intellect	 	higher mental powers; person of great intellectual ability
credulity	 	belief on slight evidence; gullibility; naivet\'e; ADJ. credulous
damn	 	condemn; criticize severely; condemn to everlasting punishment; doom; bring to ruin; N. damnation
embark	 	commence; go on board a boat; begin a journey
exult	 	rejoice
concerted	 	mutually agreed on; done together by agreement; Ex. concerted effort; CF. in concert: working together
innocuous	 	harmless
minatory	 	menacing; threatening
insurrection	 	rebellion; uprising
evanescent	 	fleeting; vanishing; soon disappearing; V. evanesce
hoard	 	stockpile; accumulate for future use; N: supply stored for future use
stealth	 	action of moving secretly or unseen; slyness; sneakiness; secretiveness; ADJ. stealthy
incognito	 	with identity concealed; using an assumed name; ADJ.
deflect	 	turn aside; turn away from a straight course
refectory	 	dining hall; room where meals are served (in a school)
exacerbate	 	worsen; aggravate; embitter
diverse	 	differing in some characteristics (from each other); various; N. diversity:	variety; dissimilitude; lack of resemblance
ovation	 	enthusiastic applause
plane	 	carpenter's tool for smoothing and leveling wood; V. CF. flat
verbatim	 	word for word; in the same words; repeating the actual words exactly
flagrant	 	conspicuously wicked, bad, or offensive; blatant; outrageous
impale	 	pierce (with a sharp point); Ex. impaled by the spear
vigor	 	active strength; energy; enthusiasm; ADJ. vigorous
gourmet	 	connoisseur of food and drink; epicure
precocious	 	advanced in development; N. precocity
smug	 	self-satisfied; complacent
seethe	 	be violently disturbed; boil; (of a liquid) move about wildly as if boiling; Ex. The nation was seething with discontent.
equilibrium	 	balance of opposing forces; balance of the mind; equanimity
inextricable	  from which it is impossible to get free; that cannot be untied; Ex. inextricable troubles; Ex. inextricable two histories
composure	 	mental calmness
inviolable	 	secure from corruption, attack, or violation(or profanation); unassailable; Ex. inviolable oath/rights; N. inviolability
avid	 	greedy; extremely eager for; Ex. avid learner; N. avidity
aureole	 	sun's corona; halo; bright circle of light
holster	 	leather pistol case (that hangs on a belt around the waist)
blunt	 	having a dull edge; abrupt and frank in speech or manner; brusque; V: make or become blunt
championship	 	position of champion; defense or support; competition held to determine a champion
incline	 	slope; slant; Ex. steep incline
cog	 	tooth projecting from a wheel
apprehensive	 	fearful; discerning
actuate	 	motivate; activate; cause to act
gerontology	 	study of the sociological phenomena associated with old age
bard	 	poet
larder	 	pantry; place where food is kept
cleft	 	N: split
rider	 	amendment or clause added to a legislative bill
jostle	 	shove; bump; push against (someone) rather roughly; Ex. jostled by the crowds
coquette	 	flirt; flirtatious woman; woman who tries to attract the admiration of men without sincere feelings; V.
exhume	 	dig out of the ground; remove from a grave
crypt	 	secret recess or vault usually used for burial; underground room (under a church)
resurrect	 	revive
h 14
zenith	 	point directly overhead in the sky; summit; acme; highest point
stamina	 	power of endurance; strength; staying power
blurt	 	utter impulsively from nervousness or excitement
extrapolation	 	projection; conjecture; V. extrapolate: infer (unknown information) from known information
vagabond	 	wanderer (without a permanent home); tramp
check	 	stop motion; curb or restrain
sophisticated	 	worldly wise and urbane; refined; complex; N. sophistication; V. sophisticate
solstice	 	point or time at which the sun is farthest from the equator
amalgamate	 	(of societies or groups) combine; unite in one body
auspicious	 	favoring success; giving signs of future success; Cf. auspices
pediatrician	 	physician specializing in children's diseases; N. pediatrics
elucidate	 	explain; make clear; clarify; enlighten; CF. lucid
foolhardy	 	rash; reckless; foolishly daring
erroneous	 	mistaken; wrong; incorrect
title	 	name (of a book, film, etc.); mark of rank; formal appellation as of rank or office (such as Lord or General); right or claim to possession; championship; Ex. title as head of the family; Ex. title to the estate
fallible	 	liable to err
alimony	 	payments made regularly to an ex-spouse after divorce
hirsute	 	hairy; having a lot of hair
militia	 	army composed of ordinary citizens rather than professional soldiers
sheaf	 	bundle of stalks of grain; any bundle of things tied together
rusticate	 	banish to the country; dwell in the country
ardor	 	heat; passion; zeal; ADJ. ardent
sonic	 	of sound or its speed in air; CF. subsonic, supersonic
leaven	 	add leaven to; cause to rise or grow lighter; enliven; N: agent, such as yeast, that causes dough to rise (by fermentation); element that lightens or enlivens
suborn	 	persuade to act unlawfully (especially to commit perjury); N. subornation
pare	 	cut away the outer covering or skin of (with a knife); trim; Ex. pare apples/expenses
misdemeanor	 	minor crime; misdeed; wrongdoing
tendentious	 	promoting a particular point of view; biased; having an aim; designed to further a cause; Ex. tendentious rather than truth-seeking; CF. tend: move in a certain direction
throes	 	violent anguish
nova	 	star that suddenly becomes much brighter and then returns to its original brightness
savor	 	enjoy; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality; N: taste or smell; distinctive quality
apolitical	 	having an aversion or lack of concern for political affairs
emancipate	 	set free; liberate
bovine	 	cowlike; placid and dull; slow-thinking; calm
expletive	 	meaningless word; interjection; profane oath; swear-word
agape	 	openmouthed
lampoon	 	ridicule; N: written attack ridiculing or satirizing a person, group, or institution
forte	 	strong point or special talent in a person's character
supple	 	flexible; limber; pliant
demerit	  fault; bad quality
callus	 	area of thick hard skin
defoliate	 	destroy leaves; deprive of leaves (by the use of chemicals); N. defoliant
credence	 	belief
flip	 	send (something) spinning, often into the air, by striking with a light quick blow; turn over; Ex. flip over
prognosis	 	forecasted course of a disease; prediction; CF. prognostic
flounder	 	struggle and thrash about; proceed clumsily or falter (as in water, mud, snow, etc.); proceed in confusion
skiff	 	small light sailboat or rowboat
demoniac(demoniacal)	 	fiendish; cruel; N. demon: evil supernatural being; devil
ruse	 	trick to deceive; stratagem
sequester	 	isolate; segregate; seclude; retire from public life
transgression	 	violation of a law; sin; V. transgress: go beyond (a limit); violate; do wrong
analogous	 	comparable; similar
eclectic	 	selective; composed of elements drawn from disparate sources; selecting individual elements from a variety of sources; N. eclecticism
mangle	 	tear or cut to pieces; mutilate or disfigure; Ex. badly mangled bodies
waver	 	move or swing back and forth; be uncertain or unsteady in decision or movement; Ex. wavering between accepting and refusing
buccaneer	 	pirate
placid	 	peaceful; calm; Ex. placid child/lake
inscrutable	 	difficult to understand; impenetrable; not readily understood; mysterious
gaudy	 	flashy; showy
pigment	 	coloring matter (usually powder to be mixed with water or oil)
skittish	 	inconstant; capricious; frivolous; not serious; Ex. charming but skittish young woman; CF. skit
precept	 	practical rule guiding conduct; Ex. mother's precept
contumacious	 	stubborn and disobedient; resisting authority (esp. disobedient to an order made by a court)
solace	 	comfort in sorrow or trouble; consolation; V: comfort or console in time of sorrow or trouble
affliction	 	state of distress; trial; cause of distress or suffering; V. afflict: inflict grievous suffering on
introspective	 	looking within oneself; N. introspection: self-examination
contravene	 	contradict; oppose; violate (a rule, law, or custom); N. contravention
daunt	 	intimidate; frighten; discourage; dishearten
apogee	 	highest point; the point farthest from the earth; OP. perigee
mar	 	spoil the appearance of
temperament	 	characteristic frame of mind; disposition; emotional excess; ADJ. temperamental: of temperament; having frequent changes of temper; Ex. temperamental dislike of sports; Ex. temperamental actress
misadventure	 	mischance; ill luck; Ex. death by misadventure
flick	 	light stroke as with a whip; V: move with a light quick blow; strike with a light quick blow (as from a whip); Ex. flick the switch
plenitude	 	abundance; plenty; great amount; completeness; fullness; CF. plenary, plenty
preposterous	 	absurd; completely unreasonable; ridiculous
benefactor	 	gift giver; patron; person who does good or who gives money for a good purpose
suspense	 	state of being undecided; anxiety or apprehension resulting from uncertainty
gobble	 	eat very quickly
unfetter	 	liberate; free from chains; V. unfetter
incarnation	 	act of assuming a human body and human nature; one who personifies something; personification; Ex. previous incarnation/reincarnation
palette	 	board on which painter mixes pigments(coloring matters)
erudite	 	(of a person or book) learned; full of learning; scholarly; N. erudition
askew	 	crookedly; slanted; at an angle
ostensible	 	apparent; appearing as such; professed(pretended); pretended; Ex. ostensible purpose of the expedition
cringe	 	shrink back as if in fear; cower
perennial	 	something long-lasting; perennial plant; ADJ: lasting through the year or many years; lasting for a long time; enduring
generate	 	cause; produce; create
appraise	 	estimate value of; N. appraisal
executioner	 	person administering capital punishment
imperil	 	put in danger
uncanny	 	strange; mysterious; Ex. uncanny knack
sonnet	 	14-line poetic verse form with a fixed rhyme pattern
compromise	 	adjust or settle by making mutual concessions; endanger the interests or reputation of; put into danger, disrepute, or a dishonorable position; Ex. compromise one's principle; N.
bestow	 	confer
addendum	 	addition; appendix to book; something that is added (as at the end of a speech or book)
anonymity	 	state of being nameless; anonymousness; ADJ. anonymous
maritime	 	bordering on(adjacent to) the sea; nautical; of the ships or the sea; Ex. Maritime Provinces
h 15
solicit	 	entreat; request earnestly; seek to obtain; Ex. solicit votes; CF. solicitor: one who solicits; chief law officer
fatuous	 	smugly and unconsciously foolish; inane; silly; N. fatuity, fatuousness
ingrained	 	deeply established; firmly rooted; Ex. ingrained dirt/prejudice
inclement	 	stormy; unkind; unmerciful; CF. clement
biting	  sharply painful to the body or mind; Ex. biting wind/remarks
pronounced	 	distinct; very noticeable; Ex. pronounced limp
abstain	 	refrain; withhold from participation; intentionally not use one's vote; 기권하다
meditation	 	reflection; thought; V. meditate
unguent	 	ointment
sift	 	put through a sieve to separate fine from coarse particles; sort or examine carefully
authoritarian	 	subordinating the individual to the state; completely dominating another's will; Ex. authoritarian regime/father
ruddy	 	reddish; (of the face) reddish and healthy-looking
rig	 	fix or manipulate; manipulate dishonestly for personal gain; Ex. rig the election
consort	 	associate with; keep company; N: husband or wife (or a ruler)
kaleidoscope	 	tube in which patterns made by the reflection in mirrors of colored pieces of glass, etc. produce interesting symmetrical effects; series of changing events; Ex. kaleidoscope of European history; CF. beautiful
deluge	 	flood; rush; V.
devout	 	pious; deeply religious; sincere; earnest; Ex. my devout hope
defection	 	desertion
conclusive	 	decisive; ending all debate
headlong	 	hasty; rash; headfirst; ADV.
antique	  made in an earlier period and usu. valuable; N: object that was made in an earlier period and that is rare or valuable
handsome	 	large in quantity; generous; Ex. handsome reward
pitfall	 	hidden danger; concealed trap
dilettante	 	aimless follower of an art or a field of knowledge (not taking it seriously); amateur; dabbler; CF. delight
assurance	 	firm statement that something is certainly true; promise or pledge; certainty; confidence in one's own ability; self-confidence; Ex. In spite of all his assurances, he did not come back; Ex. assurance of his loyalty; Ex. The teacher lacked assurance in fron of his class; V. assure; tell firmly with confidence; ensure; make (something) certain to heappen; make (someone) feel sure; give confidence to; ADJ. assured: self-assured; confident in one's own ability; showing certainty
inordinate	 	beyond reasonable limits; unrestrained; excessive; Ex. inordinate demands
macabre	 	gruesome; grisly; ghastly; CF. of death
commemorate	 	honor the memory of; serve as a memorial to; Ex. commemorate the 100th anniversary/those who died in the war
belabor	 	harp on; dwell on tediously; explain or go over excessively or to a ridiculous degree; assail verbally; beat severely; attack physically
quiescent	 	dormant; temporarily inactive; at rest; N. quiescence
complacency	 	self-satisfaction; smugness; ADJ. complacent
confiscate	 	seize; take possession of (private property) by official order (usu. as a punishment); commandeer
hierarchy	 	arrangement by rank or standing; authoritarian body divided into ranks; body of persons having authority
notable	 	conspicuous; worthy of note; remarkable; important; distinguished; noted
shard	 	fragment generally of broken pottery (glass, clay bowl, or cup)
abase	 	lower; degrade; humiliate; make humble; make (oneself) lose self-respect
nonchalance	 	indifference; lack of concern; composure; ADJ. nonchalant: unconcerned; cool; indifferent; Ex. nonchalant attitude to his debts
bargain	 	agreement between two groups or people; something for sale at a price advantageous to the buyer; V: negotiate; trade; Ex. bargaining power
appellation	 	name; title
awry	 	distorted; crooked; bent; Ex. Our plans have gone awry.
diversion	 	act of turning aside; pastime; V. divert: turn aside from a course; distract; amuse
retrieve	 	recover; put right; find and bring in; regain; Ex. retrieve the situation
baffle	 	frustrate; perplex
bluff	 	pretense (of strength); deception; high cliff; ADJ: rough but good-natured
h	  4	
trunk	 	main wooden stem of a tree; human body excluding the head and limbs; torso; prehensile nose of an elephant
blas\'e	 	bored with pleasure or dissipation; uninterested or bored
sophist	 	teacher of philosophy; quibbler; employer of fallacious reasoning; N. sophism: plausible but fallacious argument
dire	 	warning of disaster; disastrous; (of needs and dangers) very great; urgent; Ex. dire prediction/need of food
sextant	 	navigation tool used to determine a ship's latitude and longitude (by measuring the altitudes of stars)
prudent	 	cautious; careful; prudential
seamy	 	sordid; base; filthy; unwholesome; Ex. seamy side of city life
constituency	 	voters represented by an elected official; district so represented; group of supporters (or constituents)
hindmost	 	furthest behind; farthest to the rear
bog	 	soft wet land; V: hinder or be hindered; Ex. bogged down in the mud
recluse	 	hermit; loner; ADJ. reclusive
ventilate	 	admit fresh air into to replace stale air
constraint	 	restraint; compulsion; repression of feelings; reticence; V. constrain: hold back; restrain; compel; oblige; confine forcibly; imprison
horde	 	crowd; swarm
pandemonium	 	wild tumult(commotion); wild noisy disorder; CF. Paradise Lost
impropriety	 	improperness; unsuitableness
ostracize	 	banish from a group; exclude from public favor; ban; Ex. His friends ostracized him. N. ostracism
ravine	 	narrow valley with steep sides; gorge; CF. gully, canyon
vigilant	 	watchful; on the alert; watchfully awake; alert to spot danger; N. vigilance
sway	 	swing from side to side; influence (someone) to change one's opinion; N.
ascertain	 	find out for certain; make certain
eccentric	 	irregular; odd; unconventional; whimsical; bizarre; not concentric
rasp	 	(of a sound) grate on (eg. nerves); make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; rub with something rough; Ex. The cat's tongue rasped my hand.
recast	 	reconstruct (a sentence, story, statue, etc.); fashion again
effervescence	 	inner excitement or exuberance; showing high spirits; emitting bubbles forming inside; bubbling from fermentation or carbonation; ADJ. effervescent; V. effervesce
succumb	 	yield (to something overwhelming); give in; die; Ex. succumb to the illness
encipher	 	encode; convert a message into code; put into cipher
complaisant	 	trying to please; obliging; willing to please others
negligible	 	so small, trifling, or unimportant as to be easily disregarded
import	 	significance; importance; meaning
disinclination	 	unwillingness
scale	 	climb up; ascend; remove or come off in scales; N: flake of epidermis; ascending or descending series of musical tones
precipitous	 	steep; overhasty; precipitate
torpor	 	lethargy; sluggishness; dormancy; ADJ. torpid: lethargic; lazy; inactive; (of an animal) dormant; hibernating
bliss	 	complete happiness; ADJ. blissful
buffoonery	 	clowning
autocratic	 	having absolute unchecked power; dictatorial; N. autocrat, autocracy
denomination	 	religious group; unit in a system; name or designation; CF. denominator: common trait or characteristic
rickety	 	(of buildings) likely to break or fall apart; of rickets; CF. rickets; CF. vitamin D
drone	 	talk dully; buzz or murmur like a bee; N.
impertinent	 	insolent; rude; not pertinent; N. impertinence
enjoin	 	command; order; forbid
commonwealth	 	nation governed by the people; republic; people of a nation
idle	 	not working; not employed or busy; lazy; without purpose; useless; lacking substance; baseless; not based on truth; Ex. idle worker; Ex. talk idly; V.
exhort	 	urge (by strong argument or advice); Ex. The general exhorted his men to fight bravely; N. exhortation
rout	 	put to rout; stampede; drive out; N: complete defeat and disorderly retreat
tundra	 	rolling treeless plain in Siberia and arctic North America
indisputable	 	too certain to be disputed; beyond doubt
indulgent	 	humoring; yielding; lenient; showing indulgence
arable	 	fit for growing crops; Ex. arable land
imprudent	 	lacking caution; not prudent; injudicious
impel	 	drive or force onward; drive to take action; urge to action
h 16
scrupulous	 	conscientious; extremely thorough; Ex. scrupulous worker
rigid	 	hard and unbending; stiff and unyielding; fixed in behavior or views; strict; rigorous; Ex. rigid rule
versatile	 	having many talents; capable of working in many fields; having many uses or functions; N. versatility
mediocre	 	ordinary; commonplace; neither good nor bad
nourishment	 	something that nourishes; food
orthodox	 	traditional; (of someone) conservative in belief; adhering to an established doctrine
adherent	 	supporter; follower
hybrid	 	mongrel; mixed breed; V. hybridize
glaze	 	cover with a thin and shiny surface; apply a glaze to; N: thin, smooth, shiny coating (as for pottery); Ex. unglazed pottery
memorial	 	something, such as a monument or holiday, intended to honor the memory of a person or event; ADJ: commemorative
satiate	 	satisfy fully (physical needs such as hunger); sate; N. satiety: condition of being satiated
righteous	 	morally upright; just
castigation	 	punishment; severe criticism or disapproval
incarnate	 	endowed with flesh; invested with bodily form; personified; Ex. devil incarnate; V: give bodily form to; embody
expeditious	 	done with speed; quick; N. expedition
homespun	 	domestic; made at home; spun or woven at home; simple and ordinary; Ex. homespun philosophy
abscission	 	cutting off; separation
phoenix	 	symbol of immortality or rebirth; Ex. phoenix rising from its ashes
perceptive	 	insightful; showing a good ability at perceiving and understanding; aware; wise; of perception
taunt	 	deride or provoke; challenge in derision; N.
polarity	 	state of having two opposite qualities
constituent	 	supporter; voter; member of a constituency; component
excise	 	cut away; cut out; N: government tax on good produced and used inside a country; N. excision
prey	 	target of a hunt; victim; V: hunt and eat as prey; victimize; Ex. Cats prey on mice.
obsolete	 	outmoded; no longer used
vying	 	contending; CF. vie
impuissance	 	powerlessness; feebleness
distinct	 	clearly different; clearly noticed
healthful	 	conducive to good health; Ex. healthful mountain air
unequivocal	 	plain; clear; obvious
profligate	 	wasteful (of money); dissipated; wildly immoral; dissolute; N: profligate person; N. profligacy
opportunist	 	individual who sacrifices principles for expediency by taking advantage of circumstances; N. opportunism
sovereign	 	ruler in a monarchy; ADJ: (of a country) independent and self-governing; having supreme power; supreme; excellent
myriad	 	very large number; ADJ. CF. ten thousand
unfledged	 	immature; not having the feathers necessary to fly; CF. fledgling
rancid	 	having the odor of stale or decomposing fat; rank
pecuniary	 	pertaining to money
hurl	 	throw forcefully; shout out violently
founder	 	fail completely; sink; CF. flounder
sacrosanct	 	invioably sacred; most sacred; inviolable
conviction	 	judgment that someone is guilty of a crime; strongly held belief
cornucopia	 	horn (or horn-shaped container) overflowing with fruit and grain; symbol of abundance; horn of plenty
disgorge	 	surrender something (stolen); eject; vomit; OP. gorge
emend	 	correct (usually a text); N. emendation: correction of errors; improvement
hindrance	 	block; obstacle; V. hinder
cistern	 	reservoir or water tank
cipher	 	nonentity; worthless person or thing; zero; secret code; V.
bristling	 	rising like bristles; showing irritation
cadence	 	rhythmic rise and fall (of words or sounds); beat; regular beat of sound; rhythm
outlaw	 	fugitive from the law (excluded from legal protection); V: declare (someone) to be an outlaw; deprive of the protection of the law; declare illegal; Ex. Drinking has been outlawed.
gratis	 	free; without charge; ADJ.
stalemate	 	deadlock; situation in which further action is blocked
avert	 	prevent; avoid; turn away (eyes or thought); Ex. An accident was averted by his quick thinking; Ex. She averted her eyes from the terrible sight.
bleak	 	cold or cheerless; frigid; unlikely to be favorable; depressing
liquidate	 	settle accounts; pay off (a debt); clear up; eliminate; kill or abolish
concordat	 	formal agreement
prance	 	move about in a spirited manner (proudly and confidently)
conjecture	 	surmise; guess; V.
prodigal	 	wasteful; reckless with money; profuse; Ex. a mind prodigal of ideas; N. prodigality
dingy	 	(of things and place) dirty and dull; Ex. dingy street/curtain
ferocious	 	fierce; violent; N. ferocity
confidence	 	self-assurance; calm unworried feeling based on a strong belief in one's abilities; strong belief in the ability of a person or plan; trust or faith in a person or thing; something confided; secret; Ex. confidence in your ability; Ex. I'm telling you this in confidence; Ex. exchange confidences about their boyfriends; ADJ. confident
preen	 	make oneself tidy in appearance; feel self-satisfaction or pride; (of a bird) smooth or clean (feathers) with the beak; Ex. preen oneself on; CF. prune
adorn	 	decorate
malingerer	 	one who feigns illness to escape duty; V. malinger: feign illness to avoid work
crotchety	 	(of someone old) eccentric; odd; whimsical; bad-tempered; N. crotchet: odd or whimsical notion
ancestry	 	family descent; ADJ. ancestral
quack	 	charlatan; impostor
inductive	 	pertaining to induction or proceeding from the  specific  to the general
quietude	 	tranquillity; calmness
spartan	 	without attention to comfort; lacking luxury and comfort; sternly disciplined; Ex. spartan living condition/life
surreptitious	 	done secretly; secret; furtive; sneaky; hidden
undermine	 	weaken gradually; sap; dig a mine beneath
stultify	 	make stupid in mind; cause to appear or become stupid or inconsistent; suppress; frustrate or hinder; Ex. stultifying effect of uninteresting work; Ex. stultify free expression
querulous	 	given to complaining; complaining; fretful; whining
anodyne	 	drug that relieves pain or trouble; 진통제; opiate; ADJ. Ex. anodyne statement
comeuppance	 	deserts; well-deserved punishment or misfortune; rebuke 
largess	 	generous gift (given to people who do not have enough)
endorse	 	approve; support; write one's signature on the back of; N. endorsement; CF. dorsal
pall	 	become boring; grow tiresome
frantic	 	wild; distraught as from fear or worry; Ex. frantic with fear
voluptuous	 	sensual; of or giving sensual pleasure; indulging in sensual pleasures; Ex. voluptuous lines; Ex. voluptuous life of the Romans; N. voluptuary: voluptuous person
clip	 	cut off with shears; fasten; N: something clipped off (as a short extract from film); clasp or fastener
podiatrist	 	doctor who treats ailments of the feet; chiropodist; N. podiatrics
philistine	 	narrow-minded person, uncultured and exclusively interested in material gain; uncultured person who is indifferent to artistic and cultural values; member of an ancient people in Palestine; OP. aesthete
assail	 	assault
boost	 	lift by pushing up from below; increase; raise; N: push upward; increase
diverge	 	vary; go in different directions from the same point; ADJ. divergent: differing; deviating
indelible	 	not able to be erased
hoodwink	 	deceive; delude
fabricate	 	build; lie; make up (a story) in order to deceive; Ex. fabricate the whole story; CF. fabric: underlying structure; Ex. fabric of society
minuscule(miniscule)	 	extremely small
bigotry	 	stubborn intolerance
forthcoming	 	happening in the near future; ready; willing to help; Ex. No answer was forthcoming.
seine	 	seine net; net for catching fish
enamored	 	in love; Ex. enamored of his own beauty; V. enamor: inspire with love
stammer	 	speak with involuntarily pauses or repetitions
h 17
hale	 	healthy
regent	 	a person who governs in place of a ruler who is ill, absent, or still a child; ADJ. Ex. the Prince regent
ingenue	 	ing\'enue; young innocent girl
grudge	 	deep feeling of dislike; Ex. grudge fight; V.
lugubrious	 	mournful; sorrowful
remit	 	transmit (money) in payment; free someone from a debt or punishment
glaring	 	(of something bad) highly conspicuous; harshly bright; shining intensely and blindingly
convene	 	come together; assemble; call to meet; Ex. convene the council
obsequy	 	funeral ceremony
subdue	 	less intense; quieter; Ex. subdued lighting; Ex. subdue: conquer; make less intense; quiet; Ex. subdue one's anger
dominate	 	control; rule; enjoy a commanding position in; overlook from a height; 내려다보다
acrimonious	 	stinging; caustic; bitter in words or manner; N. acrimony: bitter ill-natured animosity in speech or behavior
inadvertently	 	unintentionally; by oversight; carelessly
antiquated	 	obsolete; old-fashioned; outdated
dregs	 	sediment in a liquid; lees; worthless residue
peer	 	one who has equal standing with another; nobleman; V: look intently; N. peerage; CF. peeress
rabies	 	disease passed on by the bite of an infected animal (causing madness and death)
rabid	 	of or suffering rabies; like a fanatic; extremely zealous; furious; CF. rabies: hydrophobia
absolute	 	complete; totally unlimited; having complete power; certain; not relative; Ex. absolute honesty/ruler; CF. absolutism
illicit	 	illegal
inveigle	 	deceive; lead astray by deception; wheedle(cajole); Ex. inveigle her into joining the club; CF. interest dishonestly
prosperity	 	good fortune and financial success; physical well-being
blare	 	loud or harsh roar or screech; dazzling blaze of light
candor	 	frankness; open honesty; ADJ. candid
talisman	 	charm; object believed to give supernatural powers to or protect its bearer
ubiquitous	 	being everywhere; omnipresent; N. ubiquity
multiplicity	 	state of being numerous or multiple; large number; Ex. multiplicity of details; ADJ. multiple: of more than one element
renovate	 	restore to good condition; renew
natal	 	connected with birth; CF. prenatal; CF. postnatal
nuptial	 	of marriage or the wedding ceremony; N; nuptials; wedding ceremony
premonition	 	forewarning; presentiment; foreboding
tempestuous	 	stormy; violent; impassioned; N. tempest: violent storm
ballast	 	heavy substance used to add stability or weight; V. supply with ballast
accolade	 	award of merit; strong praise and approval
gentility	 	those of gentle birth; high social class; refinement; quality of being genteel
retentive	 	holding; able to retain things (esp. facts in the mind); having a good memory
desperate	 	having lost all hope; despairing; reckless and violent because of loss of hope or despair; undertaken as a last resort
manifesto	 	public declaration of principles; statement of policy
covert	 	secret; hidden; implied; OP. overt
overweening	 	arrogant; presumptuous
extort	 	wring from; get money by threats, etc.; obtain by force or threats; CF. extortionate: exorbitant
trifle	 	something of little importance or value; small amount; Ex. a trifle; V: treat without seriousness; flirt
pungent	 	stinging; acrid; sharp in taste or smell; (of speech or writing) caustic; N. pungency
encompass	 	surround; include; Ex. His activities encompass publishing and computers.
surmise	 	guess; N.
graze	 	(of an animal) feed on growing grass; cause (an animal) to feed on grass; scrape (esp. the skin) or touch lightly in passing; brush; Ex. We can't graze the cattle till summer; N: surface wound 
partiality	 	state of being partial; inclination; favorable bias; special fondness; preference
reaper	 	one who harvests grain; Ex. the Grim Reaper; V. reap: cut and gather (crop); harvest a crop
lull	 	moment of calm; period of reduced activity; Ex. a lull in the rain; V: cause to become less active; cause to sleep or rest; Ex. lull the opponents into a false sense of security; CF. lullaby
politic	 	prudent; judicious; well judged; expedient; well devised
papyrus	 	ancient paper made from stem of papyrus plant
specious	 	seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading (often intentionally)
postulate	 	self-evident truth; something assumed without proof; V: assume the truth of (as a basis of an argument)
genealogy	 	record of descent; lineage; ancestry; study of ancestry
mellifluous	 	(of words or a voice) sweetly or smoothly flowing; melodious; having a pleasant tune
leonine	 	like a lion
assimilate	 	absorb; take (food) into the body and digest it; understand (knowledge) completely and be able to use properly; cause to become homogeneous (the people of a country or race in the wasy of behaving or thinking)
dally	 	trifle with; toy with; treat without the necessary seriousness; procrastinate; waste time
queer	 	strange; eccentric; deviating from the normal
tribune	 	official of ancient Rome elected by the plebians to protect their rights; protector of the people
fathom	 	comprehend; investigate; determine the depth of; N. unit of measurement for the depth of water
promulgate	 	announce; proclaim a doctrine or law; make known by official publication
lateral	 	of or coming from the side
onomatopoeia	 	words formed in imitation of natural sounds
rudimentary	 	elementary; not developed; crude; N. rudiment: fundamental element or principle; Ex. rudiments of the language
gambol	 	romp; skip about; leap about playfully; frolic; N.
inclusive	 	tending to include all; all-inclusive; Ex. inclusive charge
waffle	 	speak equivocally about an issue; N.
sparse	 	not thick; thinly scattered; scanty
melee	 	fight
harrowing	 	agonizing; distressing; traumatic; V. harrow: break up and level (soil) with a harrow; inflict great distress on; agonize; N: farming machine to break up the earth
partition	 	divide into parts
soluble	 	able to be dissolved in a liquid; able to be worked out or solved
supercilious	 	haughty; arrogant; condescending; patronizing; CF. eyebrow, cilium
minute	 	extremely small; CF. minutes: official record of the proceedings at a meeting
iridescent	 	exhibiting rainbowlike colors; Ex. iridescent oil slick; N. iridescence
precise	 	exact
depreciate	 	lessen in value; belittle; represent as of little value
immutable	 	unchangeable
winsome	 	charming (in a childlike way); agreeable; gracious; engaging
optimist	 	person who looks on the bright side; N. optimism
inaugurate	 	begin formally; install in office; induct into office by a formal ceremony; N. inauguration; ADJ. inaugural
irrelevant	 	not applicable; unrelated
quaint	 	odd in an old-fashioned way; odd; old-fashioned; picturesque
studied	 	carefully contrived; calculated; unspontaneous; deliberate; thoughtful; Ex. studied remark
concentric	 	having a common center
pacify	 	soothe; make calm or quiet; subdue; bring peace to
friction	 	clash or conflict in opinion; rubbing against
scenario	 	plot outline; screenplay(script for a movie); opera libretto; outline of possible future events
concession	 	an act of yielding; conceding; something conceded; point, right, etc. given unwillingly; privilege of maintaining a business in a certain place; Ex. oil concessions in the North sea; CF. concessionaire
serenity	 	calmness; placidity; ADJ. serene
menial	 	suitable for servants; lowly; mean; N: someone who does menial work (esp. servant in a house)
amputate	 	cut off part of body; prune (a limb)
incarcerate	 	imprison
presumptuous	 	going beyond what is right; excessively forward; arrogant; taking liberties
blithe(blithesome)	 	gay; joyous
cognitive	 	having to do with knowing or perceiving related to the mental processes; N. cognition: the mental process of knowing
h 18
plaintive	 	expressing sorrow; mournful; Ex. plaintive song
rivulet	 	small stream; CF. rill < rivulet < river
warranty	 	guarantee; assurance by seller
equinox	 	period of equal days and nights; the beginning of spring and autumn; Ex. vernal/autumnal equinox; ADJ. equinoctial
vital	 	full of life; animated; vibrant and lively; critical; of great importance; necessary to stay alive; of life; living; breathing; N. vitality; V. vitalize
impugn	 	dispute or contradict (often in an insulting way); attack as false or questionable; challenge; gainsay; CF. fight
yen	 	strong desire; longing; urge; Ex. yen for travel
retrench	 	cut down; cut down expenses; economize
babble	 	chatter idly or foolishly; make continuous sounds like water running gently over rounded stone; N.
gastronomy	 	art and science of preparing and serving good food; CF. gastronome
ventriloquist	 	someone who can make his or her voice seem to come from another person or thing (without moving lips or jaws); N. ventriloquism, ventriloquy
deplete	 	reduce; exhaust
necromancy	 	black magic; sorcery; dealings with the dead; art that professes to communicate with the spirits of the dead so as to predict the future; CF. necromancer; CF. necro+divination; CF. necro-: death; Ex. necropolis
chasm	 	abyss; very deep crack
maternal	 	motherly; N. maternity: motherhood
daze	 	stun as with a blow or shock; bemuse; benumb; N.
caste	 	one of the hereditary classes in Hindu society; social stratification; prestige
immure	 	imprison; shut up in confinement; CF. wall
rhapsodize	 	speak or write in an exaggeratedly enthusiastic manner; Ex. rhapsodize over the beauty of the scenery
stupor	 	state of being stupefied; state of apathy; daze; lack of awareness
deface	 	mar; disfigure
revert	 	relapse; backslide; turn back to; return to the former owner; N. reversion
parquet	 	floor made of wood strips inlaid in a mosaic like matter; CF. strip: long narrow piece
fickle	 	changeable (in affections or friendship); faithless
inimical	 	(of someone) unfriendly; hostile; (of something) harmful; detrimental; CF. enemy
consonant	 	harmonious; in agreement; N.
gauche	 	clumsy (in social behavior); coarse and uncouth
falsify	 	make (something written) false by changing
repine	 	fret; complain; be annoyed; Ex. repine over the undone work
integral	 	complete; necessary for completeness; Ex. integral part
ursine	 	bearlike; pertaining to a bear
miasma	 	swamp gas; heavy vaporous atmosphere often emanating from decaying matter; pervasive corrupting influence; noxious atmosphere or influence
deviate	 	turn away from (a principle, norm); move away from an accepted standard; swerve; depart; diverge; N. deviation; Ex. deviation of the path of light by a prism
slapdash	 	hasty and careless; haphazard; sloppy(carelessly done)
maim	 	mutilate; injure lastingly; disable; cripple; Ex. maimed for life
decapitate	 	behead
intractable	 	unruly; difficult to manage; Ex. intractable problem/child
cordial	 	warmly friendly; gracious; heartfelt; Ex. cordial welcome
unilateral	 	one-sided; involving or affecting only one side; Ex. unilateral declaration
verbose	 	wordy; N. verbosity
tonsure	 	shaving of the head especially by person entering religious orders; V.
masticate	 	chew
gestate	 	evolve as in prenatal growth; N. gestation: period of development from conception until birth
rhetoric	 	art of effective communication; art of using language effectively and persuasively; style of speaking or writing; grandiloquent language; Ex. political rhetoric; ADJ. rhetorical; CF. rhetorical question: question to which no answer is expected as ``Who knows it ?''
melancholy	 	gloomy; morose; blue; N. ADJ. melancholic; CF. melancholia
retiring	 	shy and reserved (of a person); modest; Ex. her retiring personality
agrarian	 	pertaining to land or its cultivation; Ex. agrarian reform
visceral	 	felt in one's inner organs; N. viscera: internal body organs; CF. eviscerate
palate	 	roof of the mouth; sense of the taste
cleave	 	split or sever; cling to; remain faithful to; N. cleavage; ADJ. cloven
detonation	 	explosion
levitate	 	rise and float in the air (especially by magical means); CF. light
fit	 	sudden outburst of an illness or feeling; convulsion caused by epilepsy
default	 	failure to act; failure to perform a task or be present; V.
stampede	 	sudden frenzied rush (of panic-stricken animals or people); V: participate in or cause stampede; Ex. stampede before the price rises
factitious	 	artificial; produced artificially; sham; false; Ex. factitious tears
bastard	 	illegitimate child
outlook	 	point of view; view from a particular place; expectation for the future; prospect; Ex. outlook on life; Ex. pleasing outlook; Ex. weather outlook
dank	 	damp; unpleasantly wet
brevity	 	conciseness; shortness of duration
whimsy	 	whim; tendency to behave amusingly strangely; Ex. story full of whimsy
gust	 	strong abrupt rush of wind; V. CF. bluster
trinket	 	knickknack; bauble; cheap jewelry
extemporaneous	 	not planned; impromptu; extempore
universal	 	characterizing or affecting all; general; present everywhere; of the universe; cosmic; Ex. universal agreement; Ex. a subject of universal interest
interrogate	 	question closely; cross-examine; cross-question
ferment	 	agitation; commotion(noisy and excited activity); unrest (of a political kind); V. produce by fermentation; undergo fermentation; cause (a state of trouble)
apothegm(apophthegm)	 	pithy, compact saying
transport	 	strong emotion; rapture; Ex. in a transport/transports of; V: move to strong emotion; enrapture
tickle	 	touch (the body) lightly so as to cause laughter; please
chaff	 	worthless products of an endeavor; husk(outer seed cover) separated from grain; Ex. separate the wheat from the chaff
irreverence	 	lack of proper respect or reverence; ADJ. irreverent
trifling	 	trivial; unimportant
chronicle	 	report; record (in chronological order)
gourmand	 	epicure; person who takes excessive pleasure in food and drink
regal	 	royal; of a monarch; Ex. regal manner
earn	  gain for the performance of service or labor; gain (something that one deserves); deserve
glower	 	scowl; glare; look or stare angrily
prefatory	 	introductory; of a preface
gruff	 	rough-mannered; (of a voice) rough; hoarse
harangue	 	long, passionate, and vehement speech; V.
carrion	 	rotting flesh of a dead body; CF. vulture
broach	 	introduce as a subject; moot; open up
enigma	 	puzzle; mystery; ADJ. enigmatic: obscure; puzzling
disinter	 	dig up; unearth; OP. inter
defrock	 	strip a priest or minister of church authority; unfrock
craft	 	skill (esp. with one's hands); skill in deceiving people; guile; ADJ. crafty: cleverly deceitful; cunning
collateral	 	security given for loan; ADJ: secondary; descended from the same person but through different sons or daughters
reek	 	emit (an unpleasant odor or smoke); give off an unpleasant odor; give out smoke; Ex. reeking chimney; N: unpleasant odor; stench
staid	 	serious and sedate; sober; Ex. staid during the funeral ceremony
satire	 	form of literature in which irony, sarcasm, and ridicule are employed to attack human vice and folly
solicitor	 	lawyer in the lower court of law
synthesis	 	combining parts or separate things into a whole; the whole so formed; PL. syntheses; V. synthesize
mange	 	skin disease (esp. of domestic animals) marked by loss of hair
camp	 	group sharing a common cause or opinion
viable	 	capable of maintaining life; feasible; practical or workable; Ex. viable scheme
obviate	 	make unnecessary; get rid of; Ex. obviate the need
h 19
confound	 	confuse; puzzle
conifer	 	pine tree (usu. evergreen); cone-bearing tree; ADJ. coniferous; CF. deciduous; CF. evergreen
dissonance	 	discord
dehydrate	 	remove water from; dry out
cauterize	 	burn (a wound or snakebite, etc.) with hot iron or caustic substance to stop bleeding and prevent infection
suture	 	stitches sewn to hold the cut edges of a wound or incision; material used in sewing; V: sew together a wound
epicure	 	connoisseur of food and drink; gourmet; ADJ. epicurean; CF. Epicurus
prelate	 	church dignitary; priest of high position in the church (esp. bishop)
defect	 	shortcoming; V: desert (in order to join the opposite one)
incriminate	 	accuse of or implicate in a crime; serve as evidence against; cause to seem or make guilty of a crime; Ex. incriminating evidence
sectarian	 	of a sect; narrow-minded; parochial; N: member of a sect; narrow-minded person
forsake	 	desert; abandon; renounce
inerrancy	 	infallibility
somatic	 	pertaining to the body; bodily; physical
die	 	metal block used for shaping metal or plastic; device for stamping or impressing; mold; CF. dice
gavel	 	hammerlike tool; mallet(wooden hammer) used by a presiding officer or an auctioneer; V.
monochrome	 	painting in only one color; ADJ.
thrash	 	beat with a whip or flail; defeat utterly; talk about thoroughly in order to find the answer; move wildly or violently; Ex. The fishes thrashed about in the net.
geriatrics	 	medical treatment and care of old age
discretion	 	prudence; ability to adjust actions to circumstances; freedom of action or judgment; ADJ. discreet; CF. discretionary
dictum	 	authoritative and weighty statement (made by a judge in court); saying; maxim; CF. obiter dictum: incidental, nonbinding remark (something said in passing)
animus	 	hostile feeling or intent; animosity; hostility; disposition
acclaim	 	applaud; praise; greet with great approval; announce with great approval; Ex. The new drung has been acclaimed as the most important discoveries for years; N: strong expression of approval and praise
reprobate	 	morally disapproved person; person hardened in sin, devoid of a sense of decency; CF. disapproved by God ?
kleptomaniac	 	person who has a compulsive desire to steal
tycoon	 	wealthy and powerful businessperson; wealthy leader; magnate; Ex. business tycoon
resignation	 	patiently submissiveness; statement that one is quitting a job; ADJ. resigned: acquiescent
microcosm	 	small representative world; world in miniature; Ex. microcosm of English society
prosaic	 	lacking in imagination; dull and unimaginative; matter-of-fact(concerned with facts, not imagination or feelings); factual; CF. prose
fuss:	 	trouble or worry over trifles; make nervous; pay too much attention to; N: needless concern or worry (about a trivial thing); anxious nervous condition; display of attention; Ex. make a fuss over the baby
compassion	 	sympathy for the suffering of others; ADJ. compassionate
anthropoid	 	manlike; resembling a human being; N.
pauper	 	very poor person
fallow	 	(of land) plowed but not sowed (to improve the quality); uncultivated
entreat	 	plead; ask earnestly
disconcert	 	confuse; upset; embarrass; perturb
unruly	 	disobedient; lawless; difficult to control
potion	 	dose (of liquids); liquid dose
bigot	 	one who is intolerant (in matters of religion or politics)
ingenuous	 	naive and trusting; young; unsophisticated; candid
illusive	 	deceiving; based on illusion; causing illusion; deceptive
orient	 	get one's bearings; adjust; make familiar with a situation; orientate
raiment	 	clothing; garments; Ex. I have no raiment fit to wear.
Bacchanalia	 	the ancient Roman festival in honor of Bacchus
pucker	 	gather into wrinkles or folds; N: wrinkle or fold
casual	 	happening by chance; irregular; occasional; informal; showing or feeling little interest; Ex. casual reader/labor/remark
pummel	 	pommel; beat or pound with fists
curmudgeon	 	churlish, miserly individual; bad-tempered old person
coup	 	highly successful action or sudden attack; coup(s) d'\'etat; CF. coup de gr\^ace: deathblow or shot which kills
glimmer	 	shine erratically; twinkle; N: dim or unsteady light; faint indication; Ex. glimmer of hope
synchronous	 	similarly timed; simultaneous with; occurring at the same time; V. synchronize
impudence	 	impertinence; insolence
quaff	 	drink with zest; drink with relish(zest; hearty enjoyment); 꿀꺽꿀꺽 마시다; CF. sip
paramount	 	foremost in importance; supreme; CF. para-: beyond; above; Ex. paranormal
violate	 	break (a law); defile; desecrate; assault sexually; Ex. violate graves
stellar	 	pertaining to the stars; of a star performer; outstanding; Ex. stellar attraction of the entire performance
affected	 	artificial; pretended
notoriety	 	disrepute; ill fame
fluctuate	 	waver; shift; rise and fall as if in waves; change or vary irregularly
slaughter	 	killing of animals for food; massacre; V: butcher (animals) for food; kill in large numbers
levee	 	earthen or stone embankment to prevent flooding; CF. raise
embroider	 	decorate with needlework; ornament (a story) with fancy or fictitious details; embellish
correlation	 	mutual relationship
crossbreed	 	hybridize; N: hybrid; CF. interbreed; CF. inbreed
centripetal	 	tending toward the center
malefactor	 	evildoer; criminal
loquacious	 	talkative; N. loquacity
garrulous	 	loquacious; wordy; talkative; N. garrulity
Occident	 	the West
lilliputian	 	extremely small; CF. Lilliput in Gulliver's Travels
prude	 	excessively modest or proper person (who is easily shocked by improper things, esp. of a sexual nature); N. prudery; ADJ. prudish: excessively concerned with propriety
pallid	 	pale; wan; Ex. pallid complexion
flinch	 	hesitate; shrink back (in fear of something unpleasant); Ex. She did not flinch in the face of danger.
romp	 	play or frolic boisterously; gambol; N.
acerbity	 	bitterness of speech and temper; ADJ. acerbic: bitter; acrid (in taste, manner, or tone)
cumulative	 	growing by addition; accumulative
dignitary	 	person of high rank or position
berserk	 	mad with violent anger; frenzied; madly excited
languish	 	lose animation or strength
outskirts	 	fringes; outer borders (as of a city); Ex. outskirts of Boston
paranoia	 	psychosis marked by delusions of grandeur or persecution; N: ADJ: paranoid, paranoiac
paradox	 	something apparently contradictory in nature (that may nonetheless be true); statement that looks false but is actually correct
infinitesimal	 	very small
masquerade	 	wear a mask or disguise; pretend; N: costume party or ball at which masks are worn; pretense; disguise
shade	 	slight difference in degree; nuance; degree of color; Ex. shades of meaning/grey
merit	  good quality deserving praise; merits: aspect of character or behavior deserving approval or disapproval; Ex. judge each plan on its own merits; V: deserve; earn
charlatan	 	quack; pretender to knowledge (esp. in medicine)
legacy	 	gift made by a will; something handed down from an ancestor
suffuse	 	spread through or over (with a color or liquid); charge; Ex. A blush suffused her cheeks.
prelude	 	introduction; introductory performance or event; forerunner
cursive	 	(of writing) flowing; running; having the successive letters joined
alleviate	 	relieve (pain)
hireling	 	one who serves for hire (usually used contemptuously); one who works solely for compensation; Ex. hireling politician
palatial	 	of or suitable for a palace; magnificent
execrate	 	curse; express abhorrence for; detest
disheveled	 	untidy (of hair or clothing); V. dishevel
geniality	 	cheerfulness; kindliness; sympathy; ADJ. genial: cheerful and good-tempered
h 20
sanguinary	 	bloody; with much bloodshed
impediment	 	hindrance; stumbling-block; speech defect preventing clear articulation; Ex. speech impediment
dolt	 	slow-thinking stupid person; CF. dull
sacrilegious	 	desecrating; profane; N. sacrilege: desecration, misuse, or theft of something sacred
nutritious	 	providing nourishment
menace	 	threat; V: threaten
dilapidated	 	falling to pieces; in a bad condition; ruined because of neglect; Ex. dilapidated old car/castle; N. dilapidation
cataract	 	great waterfall; eye abnormality (causing a gradual loss of eyesight)
usury	 	lending money at illegal high rates of interest
impute	 	attribute; ascribe; charge; N. imputation
jaundiced	 	yellowed; prejudiced (envious, hostile, or resentful) from long and disappointing experience of human affairs; Ex. with a jaundiced eye
lace	 	cord used to draw and tie together two opposite edges (as of a shoe); delicate fabric made of fine threads; V: draw together by tying a lace
prophylactic	 	used to prevent disease; N: something prophylactic; condom; N. prophylaxis: prevention of disease
paroxysm	 	fit or attack of pain, laughter, rage; sudden outburst
transmute	 	transform; change; convert to something different
submerge	 	place under water; dip; go under water; cover completely (as with water); Ex. submerged in work
foppish	 	vain about dress and appearance; N. fop: man who takes too much interest in his clothes and appearance
psychopathic	 	pertaining to mental dearrangement; N. psychopath: person with an antisocial personality disorder
porridge	 	soft food made by boiling oatmeal
religious	  of religion; (of a person) pious; having reverence for a deity
cumbersome	 	heavy and awkward to carry or wear; burdensome; Ex. cumbersome parcel/uniform
volley	 	simultaneous discharge of a number of shots; V.
silt	 	sediment deposited by running water (at the entrance to a harbor or by a bend in a river)
catcall	 	shout of disapproval or displeasure (made at the theater or a sports match); boo; V.
sleeper	 	one that achieves unexpected success; something originally of little value or importance that in time becomes very valuable
replete	 	fully filled; filled to the brim or to the point of being stuffed; abundantly supplied; Ex. report replete with errors
rakish	 	jaunty; stylish; sporty; morally corrupt; dissolute; Ex. He wore his hat at a rakish and jaunty angle.
writhe	 	twist in coils; contort in pain
satirical	 	using satire; mocking
nauseate	 	cause to become sick; fill with disgust; fill nausea
muddle	 	confuse; mix up confusedly; N: state of confusion
varnish	 	paint used to coat a surface with a glossy film; glossy coating produced by using this substance; Ex. nail varnish; V.
chortle	 	chuckle with delight; N.
multiform	 	having many forms
dilate	 	expand; dilate on/upon: speak or write at length on (a subject)
monarchy	 	government under a single ruler
layman	 	man who is not a cleric; man who is nonprofessional
flair	 	talent
fluke	 	unlikely occurrence; stroke of fortune; accidental stroke of good luck; ADJ. fluky
ornithologist	 	scientific student of birds; N. ornithology: scientific study of birds
bank	 	heap; piled-up mass; embankment; lateral tilting (as of an aircraft in turning); V: pile up; protect with a bank; tilt in turning
ruthless	 	pitiless; merciless; cruel
entail	 	make necessary; require; necessitate; involve; limit the inheritance of (property) to a specified succession of heirs; Ex. entail A on/upon B
prosody	 	art of versification; study of the metrical structure of verse
acme	 	peak; pinnacle; highest point
delusive	 	deceptive; likely to delude; misleading; raising vain hopes; Ex. delusive promises
torso	 	trunk of statue with head and limbs missing; human trunk
asinine	 	stupid; Ex. asinine remarks
adulterate	 	make impure or of poorer quality by adding inferior or tainted(contaminated) substances
economy	 	efficiency or conciseness in using something; thrifty management of resources
derelict	 	negligent; (of someone) neglectful of duty; (of something) deserted by an owner; abandoned; N: abandoned property; homeless or vagrant person
lust	 	intense sexual desire; intense eagerness; V.
ignite	 	kindle; light; catch fire or set fire to
convex	 	curving outward
vociferous	 	clamorous; noisy; V. vociferate: cry out loudly (when complaining)
knack	 	special talent; art
matrimony	 	state of being married
self-righteous	 	sure of one's own righteousness; moralistic
caustic	 	burning; corrosive; able to burn by chemical action; sarcastically biting; (of remarks) intended to hurt; bitter; harmful; OP. harmless
icon(ikon)	 	religious image; idol; image or representation
static	 	having no motion; unchanging; lacking development; N. stasis: stable state
allege	 	state without proof
victuals	 	food; provisions; V. victual: provide with food
ennui	 	boredom; listlessness and dissatisfaction resulting from lack of interest; CF. annoy
heyday	 	time of greatest success or power; prime
obese	 	excessively fat; N. obesity
maxim	 	proverb; truth pithily stated
stupefy	 	stun; make numb (as with a drug); amaze
ecstasy	 	rapture; very strong feeling of joy and happiness; any overpowering emotion; ADJ. ecstatic: causing or experiencing ecstasy
impotent	 	weak; ineffective; lacking in physical strength or power
tureen	 	deep dish for serving soup
statute	 	law enacted by the legislature
stoop	 	bend forward and down; lower or debase oneself; fall to a lower standard of behavior by doing something; condescend; Ex. stoop to lying
aromatic	 	fragrant; having a sweet smell; N. aroma: strong pleasant smell
frustrate	 	thwart; defeat; prevent from accomplishing a purpose
hothead	 	person who does things too quickly without thinking; ADJ. hotheaded
abut	 	border upon; adjoin
litigation	 	lawsuit; N. litigant: one party in a lawsuit; V. litigate
descry	 	catch sight of (something distant)
squeamish	 	easily shocked or sickened by unpleasant things; fastidious; Ex. A nurse should not be squeamish.
abrogate	 	abolish
grill	 	question severely; cook on a grill; broil; N: cooking surface of parallel metal bars
conciliatory	 	reconciling; soothing; V. conciliate: reconcile; soothe; win the friendly feelings (by removing anger)
burgeon	 	grow rapidly; grow forth; send out buds; Ex. burgeoning computer industry; CF. bludgeon
freebooter	 	pirate or plunderer who makes war in order to grow rich
bruise	 	injure without breaking the skin; N.
amorphous	 	formless; lacking shape or definition
sedition	 	conduct or language inciting rebellion; rebellion; resistance to authority; insubordination; ADJ. seditious
groom	 	man employed to take care of horses; V: make neat and trim; clean and brush (an animal)
circuitous	 	roundabout
determination	 	resolve; firmness of purpose; measurement or calculation; decision
peerless	 	having no equal; incomparable
mobile	 	movable; not fixed; N. mobility
sultry	 	(of weather) hot; sweltering; sensual; voluptuous
banal	 	hackneyed; commonplace; trite; lacking originality; clich\'ed
prehensile	 	capable of grasping or holding (esp. by wrapping around); Ex. prehensile tails
unction	 	the act of anointing with oil; Ex. extreme unction
h 21
repulsion	 	distaste; disgust; act of driving back; ADJ. repulsive: causing disgust; tending to drive away; V. repel (not `repulse')
deliberate	 	consider; ponder; ADJ: done on purpose; slow
carafe	 	glass water bottle; decanter
permissive	 	allowing much freedom; lenient; Ex. permissive society
touching	 	causing a feeling of pity or sympathy; pathetic; V. touch: cause to feel pity or sympathy; ADJ. touched
symmetry	 	arrangement of parts so that balance is obtained; congruity; ADJ. symmetrical
serpentine	 	winding; twisting; of or like a serpent; Ex. serpentine course of the river; N. serpent: snake
stymie	 	thwart; present an obstacle; stump
canvass	 	determine or seek opinions, votes, etc.; go through (a region) to solicit votes or orders; conduct a survey; N.
primary	 	first in rank or importance; principal; earliest in time; Ex. primary stages; N. CF. first
consecrate	 	dedicate; sanctify; declare as sacred; Ex. consecrate one's life to helping the poor
provisional	 	tentative; temporary
marsupial	 	one of a family of mammals that nurse their offspring in a pouch(pocket of skin or leather); CF. kangaroo, opossum, wombat
debunk	 	expose as false, exaggerated, worthless, etc.; ridicule
bilk	 	swindle; cheat
well-bred	 	of good upbringing; well-mannered and refined
harbinger	 	forerunner (which foreshadows what is to come)
ramshackle	 	(of a building or vehicle) poorly constructed; rickety; falling apart
consensus	 	general agreement; opinion reached by a group
postmortem	 	autopsy; ADJ: occurring after death; of a postmortem
robust	 	strong; vigorous
dismember	 	cut into small parts; cut (a body) apart limb from limb
veneer	 	thin surface layer (of good quality wood, glued to a base of inferior material); cover; surface show; fa\c{c}ade; V.
capillary	 	having a very fine bore; resembling a hair; fine and slender; Ex. capillary attraction; N: very fine hairlike tube; CF. capillarity
bust	 	piece of sculpture showing a person's head, shoulders, and upper chest; V: break up; arrest; Ex. crimebuster
lot	 	object used in making a determination at random; fate; piece of land
minion	 	servile dependent; obsequious follower
incorrigible	 	uncorrectable
fancied	 	imagined; unreal
institutionalize	 	make into an institution; put or confine in an institution
forfeit	 	something surrendered as punishment for a crime or breach of contract; V: lose as a forfeit; N. forfeiture
rendezvous	 	meeting place; meeting at a set time or place; V.
replenish	 	fill up again
defunct	 	dead; no longer in use or existence
occlude	 	shut; close; obstruct; Ex. A blood clot occluded an artery.
arboretum	 	place where different trees and shrubs are studied and exhibited
kindred	 	related; belonging to the same group; similar in nature or character; Ex. kindred languages; N: relative; kin; kinship
intrude	 	put or force in without being asked; trespass; enter as an uninvited person; Ex. intrude one's own opinion into the report; CF. thrust in
maul	 	handle roughly; batter; injure by beating; Ex. mauled by his overexcited fans; N: heavy long-handled hammer
fructify	 	bear fruit; produce fruit
rife	 	(of something bad) widespread; abundant; current
niggardly	 	meanly stingy; parsimonious; N. niggard: stingy person
doze	 	sleep lightly; nap
ratiocination	 	reasoning; act of drawing conclusions from premises; V. ratiocinate: reason logically
mollycoddle	 	pamper; coddle; baby; indulge excessively
warble	 	(of a bird) sing; babble; N.
anthem	 	song of praise or patriotism; Ex. national anthem
defalcate	 	embezzle
plutocracy	 	society ruled by the wealthy
muse	 	ponder at length; N: source of inspiration (esp. of a poet)
shed	 	small roofed structure for storage and shelter; V: pour forth; lose by natural process; repel without allowing penetration; radiate; cast; Ex. shed tears/light/water/skin/leaves
jocular	 	said or done in jest or playfully; marked by joking
appropriate	 	acquire; take possession of for one's own use without permission; set aside for a particular purpose; allocate; CF. misappropriate
corrosive	 	eating away by chemicals or disease; (of language) fierce
paucity	 	scarcity; dearth
glutinous	 	sticky; viscous; gluey
unkempt	 	disheveled; uncared for in appearance; not combed; CF. comb
lionize	 	treat (a person) as a celebrity
spare	 	give; use; refrain from harming; save from experiencing; exempt; Ex. spare me 5 minutes; Ex. Take this money and spare my life; Ex. The emperor was spared the onus; ADJ: kept in reserve; free for other use; unoccupied; Ex. spare time
barrister	 	counselor-at-law or lawyer in the higher court of law; CF. bar
turbid	 	(of a liquid) having the sediment disturbed; muddy; thick
ram	 	male sheep; V. strike or drive against with a heavy impact
subside	 	sink to a lower level; settle down; sink to the bottom (as a sediment); descend; grow quiet; become less; moderate; abate
cower	 	shrink quivering as from fear; cringe
careen	 	lurch; sway from side to side; move with irregular swinging movement; stagger
pharisaical	 	pertaining to the Pharisees, who paid scrupulous attention to tradition; self-righteous; hypocritical
warrant	 	justification; written order that serves as authorization (esp. a judicial writ); Ex. search/death warrant; V: justify; guarantee
polemic	 	attack or defense of an opinion; controversy or refutation; argument in support of point of view; N. polemics: art of debate or controversy
tipple	 	drink (alcoholic beverages) frequently; N: alcoholic drink
pry	 	inquire impertinently (someone else's private affairs); use leverage to raise or open something; prize; N. pries: tool for prying
hackneyed	 	commonplace; trite
poise	 	good judgment with composure; balance; V: place in a carefully balanced position
humility	 	humbleness of spirit
snub	 	ignore or behave coldly toward; Ex. I made a suggestion but she snubbed me; N.
fetid(foetid)	 	malodorous; foul
slipshod	 	slovenly; careless; sloppy; untidy; shabby; Ex. slipshod work
fluted	 	having vertical parallel grooves (as in a pillar); V. flute: make long parallel inward curves in; N. flute: long rounded groove incised on the shaft of a column
gangrene	 	decay of body tissue caused by insufficient blood supply (usually following injury); ADJ. gangrenous
dynamic	 	energetic; vigorously active
fanaticism	 	excessive zeal; extreme devotion to a belief or cause; N. fanatic; ADJ. fanatic
ambrosia	 	food of the gods
zealot	 	one who is zealous; fanatic; person who shows excessive zeal
inimitable	 	matchless; not able to be imitated
catalyst	 	agent which brings about a chemical change while it remains unaffected and unchanged; CF. catalysis
synthetic	 	not natural; artificial; resulting from synthesis; Ex. synthetic fiber; N.
grandiloquent	 	(of a person or speech) using high sounding or important-sounding language; pompous; bombastic
solitude	 	state of being alone; seclusion; ADJ. solitary: existing or living alone (esp. by choice); remote or secluded; single; sole; Ex. solitary life/inn; Ex. no solitary piece of proof
allegiance	 	loyalty
begrudge	 	envy; give or allow unwillingly; grudge; Ex. We shouldn't begrudge him his success.
bereft	 	deprived of (something valuable); lacking
faculty	 	mental or bodily powers; teaching staff
infamous	 	notoriously bad; notorious; well known for being bad; Ex. infamous behavior; N: infamy: infamous act; evil fame or reputation
importunate	 	urging; always demanding; troublesomely urgent or persistent
conformist	  person who uncritically conforms to the customs of a group; OP. nonconformist: one who does not conform to accepted beliefs of norms
prank	 	mischievous trick
wily	 	crafty; cunning; artful; N. wile: deceitful stratagem
merger	 	combination (of two business corporations); act of merging
h 22
heedless	 	not noticing; disregarding
provenance	 	place of origin; origin or source of something; Ex. Gunpowder is of Chinese provenance; CF. come
detached	 	emotionally removed; free from emotional involvement; calm and objective; physically separate; N. detachment; CF. attachment
converse	 	opposite; ADJ.
invalidate	 	weaken; destroy; make invalid; nullify
invert	 	turn upside down or inside out; reverse the position or condition of
plagiarize	 	steal another's ideas or writings and pass them off as one's own; Ex. ideas plagiarized from my article; N. plagiarism; CF. kidnap
forensic	 	suitable to debate or courts of law; of or used in legal proceedings and the tracking of criminals; Ex. forensic science/medicine
culvert	 	artificial channel for water; drain crossing under a road
generic	 	characteristic of an entire class or species; of a genus
coalesce	 	combine; fuse; N. coalescence
erotic	 	pertaining to passionate love or sexual love
incense	 	enrage; infuriate(make furious); make extremely angry; outrage; N: aromatic substance burned to produce a pleasant odor
prattle	 	talk idly; babble; N. CF. prate
imbalance	 	lack of balance or symmetry; disproportion
pseudonym	 	pen name; fictitious name assumed by an author; ADJ. pseudonymous
supernumerary	 	person or thing excess of what is necessary; extra; ADJ: additional to the usual or necessary number
transitory	 	transient; impermanent; fleeting; N. transitoriness
alacrity	 	cheerful promptness without reluctance
remittance	 	remitting of money; amount of money remitted
timbre	 	quality of a musical tone produced by a musical instrument (which distinguishes it from others of the same pitch)
resuscitate	 	revive; bring back to life or consciousness; Ex. resuscitate the drowned child
culmination	 	highest point; climax; V. culminate in: reach the highest point in; end in; Ex. a series of minor clashes culminating in war
figurine	 	small ornamental statuette(very small statue)
ravel	 	fall apart into tangles; entangle; unravel or untwist
stem_from	 	arise from; originate from
decipher	 	decode; CF. indecipherable
endear	 	make beloved; Ex. endear her to everyone; ADJ. dear: loved; cherished; high-priced
prohibitive	 	so high as to prohibit purchase or use; tending to prevent the purchase or use of something; prohibiting; inclined to prevent or forbid; Ex. prohibitive tax
obdurate	 	stubborn; refusing to change one's belief
millennium	 	thousand-year period (as in the New Testament); hoped-for period of happiness and prosperity
pittance	 	small amount (of money); small allowance or wage
admonish	 	warn or speak to with gentle disapproval; reprove
bane	 	posion; cause of ruin; ADJ. baneful: harmful; poisonous
clich\'e	 	phrase dulled in meaning by repetition; platitude; ADJ. clich\'ed
sovereignty	 	complete independence and self-government (of a country); supremacy of authority; power to govern
juridical	 	of the law and its administration; CF. judicial: of courts of law; CF. judiciary
mace	 	ceremonial staff used as a symbol of authority; clublike medieval weapon
incrustation	 	hard coating or crust; V. incrust: encrust; cover with a crust
abject	 	(of a condition) wretched; as low as possible; lacking pride; very humble; showing lack of self-respect; Ex. abject apology
aberration	 	deviation from the normal; mental disorder
desperado	 	reckless, desperate outlaw
concurrent	 	happening at the same time; in agreement
subservient	 	behaving like a slave; servile; obsequious; subordinate; N. subservience
civil	 	having to do with citizens; not military or religious; courteous and polite; Ex. married in a civil ceremony; Ex. civil strife/disorder/law; N. civility; CF. civic
sully	 	defile; soil; tarnish; Ex. sully one's hands in menial labor
tend	 	have a tendency; take care of; minister; serve at; apply one's attention; attend
prone	 	inclined to; likely to (suffer); prostrate; lying with the front downward; Ex. prone to disease/make mistakes; Ex. accident-prone
sonorous	 	resonant; producing a full deep sound; producing sound
chalice	 	goblet; consecrated cup
blighted	 	suffering from a disease; destroyed
lank	 	long and thin; Ex. Lank, gaunt, Abraham Lincoln
migrant	 	changing its habitat; wandering; Ex. migrant birds/workers; N: one that migrates
collage	 	work of art put together from fragments
somnambulist	 	sleepwalker; V. somnambulate; N. somnambulism
flush	 	redden; blush; flow suddenly and abundantly; wash out by a rapid brief flow of water; N: reddish tinge; blush; brief rush; rush of strong feeling; Ex. flush of pride; ADJ: having surfaces in the same plane; even; blushing
dismiss	 	eliminate from consideration; no longer consider; put out of court without further hearing; reject; discharge from employment; direct to leave; ADJ. dismissive; N. dismissal
benediction	 	blessing
libretto	 	text of an opera or oratorio; CF. book
vegetate	 	live in a monotonous way (without interests or activity); CF. vegetation: plants of an area; CF. vegetarian; CF. vegan
navigable	 	(of a body of water) wide and deep enough to allow ships to pass through; (of a ship or aircraft) able to be steered
salacious	 	lascivious; lustful; Ex. salacious monk
neologism	 	new or newly coined word or phrase
codicil	 	supplement to the body of a will; later addition to a will
tension	 	stretching; condition of being stretched; mental strain; strained relationship between groups or people
cordon	 	extended line of men or fortifications to prevent access or egress; (어깨에서 겨드랑 밑으로 걸치는) 장식 리본; V.
disjunction	 	act or state of separation; disunity; CF. disjunctive: expressing a choice between two ideas; CF. conjunction; CF. conjunctive
wary	 	very cautious; watchful
effectuate	 	effect; produce; achieve; Ex. effectuate a reconciliation
vex	 	annoy; distress
clapper	 	striker (tongue) of a bell
d\'ecollet\'e	 	(of a dress) having a low-cut neckline; CF. d\'ecolletage: low neckline (on a dress)
brag	 	boast
injurious	 	harmful; causing injury
ciliated	 	having minute hairs; CF. cilium; CF. cilia: eyelash
precursor	 	forerunner; predecessor
repudiate	 	disown; disavow; deny
tome	 	large volume; book
flirt	 	behave in a way that attracts (sexual) attention; deal triflingly with; N: one (or woman) given to flirting; ADJ. flirtatious
diligence	 	steadiness of effort; persistent hard work
limn	 	draw; outline; describe; CF. line ?
beset	 	harass or trouble from all directions; hem in
platonic	 	purely spiritual; theoretical; without sensual desire
parallel	 	similar; analogous; corresponding; N: parallel line; person or thing that is parallel (to another); similarity; Ex. know of no parallel to the case; Ex. without parallel; V: be similar to; make parallel; Ex. Your experience parallels mine; CF. unparalleled
restitution	 	returning something (lost or stolen) to the rightful owner; reparation; indemnification; compensation for loss, damage, or injury
unsightly	 	ugly; unpleasant to look at
domineer	 	rule over tyrannically
billowing	 	swelling out in waves; surging
aboriginal	 	being the first of its kind in a region; primitive; native; indigenous; N. aborigine
recount	 	narrate or tell (a story); count over again
disarray	 	state of disorder; a disorderly or untidy state; Ex. with her clothes in disarray
convoluted	 	coiled around; twisted; involved; complicated; intricate; complex; N. convolution: twist; one of the convex folds of the surface of the brain
indulge	 	yield to; gratify; allow oneself a special pleasure; Ex. indulge one's every whim/a child/in a big cigarette; N. indulgence
gesticulation	 	motion; gesture; V. gesticulate: make gestures (while speaking)
vixen	 	female fox; ill-tempered woman; CF. shrew
tarnish	 	make or become dull or discolored; N.
hypercritical	 	excessively exacting; too critical (without noticing good qualities)
h 23
officious	 	meddlesome; excessively pushy in offering one's services; overly eager in offering unwanted services or advices; Ex. officious bellboy
cow	 	terrorize; intimidate
representational	  (of a style of art) showing things as they actually appear in real life
viscid	 	adhesive; gluey
infraction	 	violation (of a rule or regulation); breach
sunder	 	separate; part; CF. asunder
stilted	 	bombastic; stiffly pompous; Ex. stilted rhetoric; CF. stiff: formal
defile	 	pollute; make filthy or dirty; corrupt morally; profane; desecrate; N: narrow passage or gorge through mountains
pine	 	long for; yearn; languish from longing or grief; decline
revulsion	 	sudden strong feeling of disgust; sudden violent change of feeling; negative reaction; Ex. revulsion from the scenes of torture
refractory	 	unmanageable; disobedient and stubborn; Ex. refractory horse
decorum	 	propriety; orderliness and good taste in manners; appropriateness of behavior or conduct
tirade	 	long angry denunciatory speech; diatribe; harangue; extended scolding; denunciation
paradigm	 	model; example that serves as a model; pattern; list of all the inflectional forms of a word
sibling	 	brother or sister
peripheral	 	of a periphery; marginal; outer; of minor importance; not central; Ex. peripheral nerve/interest
squelch	 	produce a splashing sound (when stepping through mud); crush; squash; CF. 진흙을 위에서 밟을 때
dislodge	 	remove (forcibly); force out of a position; Ex. dislodge the food caught in his throat; CF. lodge
preeminent	 	outstanding; superior
mesmerize	 	hypnotize; N. mesmerism; CF. Franz Mesmer
lax	 	careless; negligent; not paying enough attention; Ex. lax service
scoff	 	laugh (at); mock; ridicule; Ex. scoff at their threats
infantile	 	childish; infantlike
imperious	 	domineering; too commanding; haughty; CF. imperial/emperor
pastoral	 	rural; of rural life; idyllic; of a pastor
herald	 	messenger; sign of something to come; V: announce; proclaim; Ex. unheralded researcher
hapless	 	unfortunate; luckless
wan	 	having a pale or sickly color; pallid
saboteur	 	one who commits sabotage; destroyer of property; N. sabotage: destruction of property (usually carried out secretly)
curfew	 	regulation requiring all people to leave the streets at stated times; signal (as a bell) announcing the hour of a curfew
pariah	 	social outcast; Ex. Mariah the pariah
slake	 	satisfy (thirst); quench; sate
unfeigned	 	genuine; real
plebeian	 	common; vulgar; pertaining to the common people; N: common people in ancient Rome; CF. patrician
mock	 	ridicule; deride; imitate often in derision
coincidence	 	the chance occurrence, at the same time, of two or more seemingly connected events; V. coincide: happen at the same time; be in agreement; CF. coincident; CF. coincidental
impregnate	 	make pregnant; fill thoroughly; saturate
vacuous	 	empty; lacking in ideas; inane; stupid; Ex. vacuous expression; N. vacuity
unobtrusive	 	inconspicuous; not blatant
devotee	 	enthusiastic follower; enthusiast; Ex. devotee of Bach
veer	 	change in direction; swerve
resonant	 	(of a sound) echoing; resounding(sounding loudly); deep and full in sound; producing resonance; Ex. resonant voice; N. resonance
bullion	 	gold and silver in the form of bars
somber	 	dark; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; CF. shadow
amble	 	walking at an easy unhurried pace; V: walk slowly and aimlessly
impecunious	 	without money
spectral	 	ghostly; N. specter: spectre; ghost; phantom
dichotomy	 	division into two opposite parts; split; branching into two parts (especially contradictory ones)
hovel	 	shack; small wretched house
artful	 	exhibiting art or skill; deceitful; cunning; CF. artifice
deputize	 	work or appoint as a deputy; N. deputy: person who has the power to take charge when the leading person is away
responsiveness	 	state of reacting readily to appeals, orders, etc.; ADJ. responsive: readily reacting; Ex. responsive to treatment
precipice	 	cliff; dangerous position; Ex. on the edge of the precipice
bauble	 	trinket; cheap jewel; trifle
primate	 	group of mammals including humans
sterile	 	incapable of producing young; free from microorganism; V. sterilize
occult	 	mysterious; secret; supernatural; beyond human comprehension; CF. mysterious to human ?; OP. bare
opus	 	work (esp. musical composition); Ex. magnum opus: masterpiece; CF. opera
fringe	 	decorative edge of hanging threads; edge
whet	 	sharpen; stimulate; Ex. whet someone's appetite
knoll	 	little round hill; hillock
graphite	 	black form of carbon used in lead pencils
diadem	 	crown
peripatetic	 	walking about from place to place (to work); moving; Ex. peripatetic school of philosophy
tenet	 	doctrine; dogma
aloft	 	upward; high up in the air
nautical	 	pertaining to ships or navigation
acknowledge	 	recognize; admit
ulcer	 	sore place appearing on the skin inside or outside the body; Ex. stomach ulcer; ADJ. ulcerous; V. ulcerate
propound	 	put forth for consideration or analysis; set forth; Ex. propound a problem/theory
affront	 	insult; offense; intentional act of disrespect; V: insult or hurt the feelings of intentionally
accelerate	 	move faster
beseech	 	beg; plead with
prototype	 	original work used as a model by others
aver	 	state confidently; declare as true
simile	 	comparison of one thing with another, using the word like or as
unravel	 	disentangle; solve
deprecate	 	express disapproval of; deplore; protest against; belittle; ADJ. deprecatory
ramification	 	branching out; subdivision; one branch of a system; one of the results following from an action or decision; Ex. ramifications of a business/the decision
bandy	 	discuss lightly or glibly; discuss in a frivolous manner; exchange (words) heatedly; quarrel; Ex. bandy words with
disembark	 	debark; go ashore (from a ship); unload cargo from a ship; CF. embark
blush	 	become red in the face (from embarrassment or shame); become red or rosy; N.
abash	 	embarrass
prevail	 	be widespread; triumph over; gain victory; prevail on: persuade; induce; Ex. Justice has prevailed; Ex. prevail on someone to do something
raze	 	destroy completely; Ex. raze the city to the ground
diaphanous	 	sheer; transparent
mystic	 	of hidden meaning and spiritual power; Ex. mystic ceremonies; N. CF. mysticism
concoct	 	prepare by mixing or combining; make up in concert; devise (something false) so as to deceive; Ex. concoct an elaborate excuse for being late; N. concoction
guffaw	 	boisterous laughter; V.
affiliation	 	joining; associating with
trigger	 	set off; start
emollient	 	soothing or softening remedy (for the skin); ADJ.
wilt	 	loose freshness; droop
iota	 	very small quantity
quash	 	crush; suppress; squash; subdue; annul; Ex. quash a rebellion/the decision of the low court
fleece	 	wool coat of a sheep; V: shear the fleece from; rob by a trick; swindle; plunder
spoilsport	 	one who spoils the pleasure of others
h 24
protrude	 	stick out; jut; project; Ex. protruding teeth
ellipsis	 	omission of words from a text; mark used to indicate an omission (when the meaning can be understood without them); PL. ellipses
clasp	 	hold firmly within arms
demeanor	 	behavior; bearing
vassal	 	in feudalism, one who held land of a superior lord; subordinate or dependent
stumble	 	trip and almost fall; proceed unsteadily; act falteringly; N.
fastidious	 	difficult to please; squeamish; fussy; finicky
brittle	 	hard but easily broken; difficult; unstable; Ex. brittle situation
dogged	 	determined; stubborn; stubbornly persevering; tenacious; Ex. Inspector Javert's dogged pursuit of Jean Valjean
bully	 	one who is habitually cruel to weaker people; V.
fluster	 	confuse; make nervous and confused; N.
desultory	 	aimless; haphazard; digressing at random
reimburse	 	repay; pay back
raucous	 	(of voice) harsh and unpleasant; (of people) disorderly and boisterous; Ex. raucous shouts
baleful	 	evil; malignant in intent or effect; deadly; having a malign influence; portending evil; ominous; threatening; Ex. baleful look
noose	 	loop formed in a rope
clamber	 	climb by crawling with difficulties; scramble
accede	 	agree
fertile	 	producing many young, fruits, or seeds; (of land) producing good crops; V. fertilize
staccato	 	played in an abrupt manner; marked by abrupt sharp sound; Ex. staccato applause
weather	 	pass safely through (a storm or  difficult period); endure the effects of weather or other forces
cozen	 	cheat; hoodwink; swindle
redress	 	remedy; compensation; Ex. seek redress for the damage to your car; V: put right; remedy or rectify (a wrong); make amends for
d\'enouement	 	final outcome; final development of the plot of a play or other literary work; the end of a story when everything is explained
subjective	 	influenced by personal feelings; occurring or taking place within the mind; unreal; Ex. subjective sensation of the ghostly presence
decoy	 	lure or bait; V.
exempt	 	not subject to a duty or obligation; free from a duty; V.
qualify	 	reach a necessary standard; limit the meaning of something stated
inroad	  hostile invasion; advance that lessens the quantity or difficulty of something; Ex. The long illness made serious inroads on his savings; CF. raid
apiarist	 	person who keeps bees
deign	 	condescend; stoop
travesty	 	copy or example of something that completely misrepresents the true nature of the real thing; comical parody or imitation; treatment aimed at making something appear ridiculous; Ex. travesty of justice; OP. paragon
scrap	 	small bit or fragment; discarded waste material; fight; Ex. a scrap of paper/cloth; V: break into parts for disposal; discard as worthless; fight; quarrel
inconsequential	 	insignificant; unimportant
reconcile	 	make friendly again (after quarrel); make consistent (two ideas in opposition); correct inconsistencies; Ex. reconcile one's political principles with one's religious beliefs
bevy	 	large group; Ex. a bevy of starlets
evoke	 	call forth (memory or feeling); Ex. That old film evoked memories of my childhood; N. evocation
legislature	 	legislating branch of government; CF. legislate: make laws
metaphor	 	implied comparison; CF. simile
punitive	 	punishing; Ex. punitive measures
vantage	 	position giving an advantage (such as a strategic point); CF. vantagepoint
larceny	 	theft; Ex. petit larceny
impromptu	 	without previous preparation; off the cuff(end of a sleeve); on the spur of the moment
excoriate	 	scold with biting harshness; censure strongly; strip the skin off
taint	 	contaminate; cause to lose purity; modify with a trace of something bad; Ex. tainted reputation; N: stain; touch of decay or bad influence; CF. touch
stricture	 	severe and adverse criticism; critical comments; limit or restriction
olfactory	 	concerning the sense of smell
galvanic	 	of the production of electricity by the action of an acid on a metal; having the effect of an electric shock; Ex. galvanic cell; galvanic effect; CF. Luigi Galvani
frock	 	long loose garment (worn by monks)
implication	 	something hinted at or suggested; implying; implicating
neophyte	 	recent convert; new member of a religious group; beginner; CF. plant
conclave	 	private secret meeting
distend	 	expand; swell out
pell-mell	 	in confusion; disorderly; Ex. dash pell-mell
luminous	 	shining (esp. in the dark); issuing light; Ex. luminous paint/road signs
pallet	 	small poor bed; Ex. straw pallet
bombastic	 	pompous; using inflated language
reprisal	 	retaliation
accomplice	 	partner in crime
exiguous	 	small in amount; minute
wretch	 	miserable person; bad or despicable person; ADJ. wretched: miserable; bad; contemptible; vile
mundane	 	worldly as opposed to spiritual; everyday; of the ordinary; Ex. mundane existence; CF. world
internecine	 	mutually destructive
orator	 	public speaker
sanctuary	 	place of refuge; shelter; shrine; holy place; Ex. The outlaw was granted sanctuary in the church.
diva	 	operatic singer; prima donna
ambulatory	 	able to walk
umbrage	 	resentment; anger; sense of injury or insult; Ex. take umbrage at his rudeness
timorous	 	fearful; timid; demonstrating fear
rousing	 	lively; inducing excitement; stirring; V. rouse: waken; arouse from sleep or depression; excite; stir up
ogle	 	look at amorously; make eyes at; Ex. old men ogling young girls
mottled	 	blotched in coloring; spotted; Ex. mottled face; V. mottle: mark with blotches of different colors
token	 	outward sign; Ex. a token of our gratitude
mote	 	small speck (esp. of dust)
sheathe	 	place into a case; insert into or provide with a sheath; Ex. He sheathed his dagger; N. sheath: case for a blade
attenuate	 	make thin; weaken
earthy	 	unrefined; coarse; of earth; Ex. earthy remarks; OP. ethereal
odds	 	chances; probability; disagreement; Ex. The odds are that it will rain. Ex. at odds with
tangential	 	only slightly connected; not central; peripheral; digressing; showing divergence; CF. tangent
eulogistic	 	praising; full of eulogy
suavity	 	urbanity; polish; ADJ. suave: smooth and courteous
mogul	 	powerful person; Ex. oil moguls; CF. Mogol, Moghul; CF. Mongolian
imperial	 	like an emperor; related to an empire; CF. imperialism
dumbfound(dumfound)	 	astonish (making dumb); ADJ. dumbfounded, dumfounded, dumbstruck
sham	 	pretend; feign; ADJ: not genuine; fake; Ex. sham jewelry; N: something that is not what it appears; impostor; pretense; Ex. The agreement was a sham.
insightful	 	discerning; perceptive
atrophy	 	wasting away; V: weaken and lose flesh and muscle (through lack of blood or lack of use)
nectar	 	drink of the gods; sweet liquid collected by bees
augment	 	increase; add to
frond	 	fern leaf; palm or banana leaf
saturnine	 	morose; gloomy; Ex. Do not be misled by his saturnine countenance.
predilection	 	preference; partiality
sybarite	 	lover of luxury; person devoted to pleasure and luxury; CF. Sybaris: an ancient Greek city in Italy
bucolic	 	rustic; pastoral
onerous	 	burdensome
hypnosis	 	induced sleeping state; ADJ. hypnotic; V. hypnotize
anneal	 	reduce brittleness and improve toughness by heating and cooling (metal or glass)
h 25
foray	 	raid; sudden raid or military advance; V.
spasmodic	 	fitful; periodic; of or like a spasm; N. spasm: sudden involuntary muscular contraction; sudden burst of energy or emotion
dwindle	 	shrink; reduce gradually
equable	 	tranquil; of even calm temper; (of temperature) steady; uniform
offhand	 	casual; done without prior thought or preparation
affirmation	 	positive assertion; confirmation; solemn pledge by one who refuses to take an oath; V. affirm; ADJ. affirmative; CF. affirmative action: positive discrimination
reparable	 	capable of being repaired
malaise	 	uneasiness; vague feeling of ill health (without any particular pain or appearance of disease)
fecundity	 	fertility; fruitfulness; ADJ. fecund: very productive of crops or young
frieze	 	ornamental horizontal band on a wall
canter	 	slow gallop; V. CF. trot
reserve	 	self-control; self-restraint; formal but distant manner; reticence; Ex. without reserve: freely and openly; ADJ. reserved: shy and uncommunicative
whimsical	 	capricious; fanciful; amusingly strange
feebleminded	 	deficient in intelligence; very stupid
exodus	 	departure (of a large number of people)
collate	 	examine and compare in order to verify authenticity; arrange in order (the sheets of a book before they are bound)
whittle	 	pare; cut away thin bits (from wood); fashion in this way; reduce gradually; trim
soporific	 	sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness; drowsy
pterodactyl	 	extinct flying reptile; CF. wing+finger
mass	 	Christian religious ceremony; CF. Mass: ceremony of the Eucharist
coagulate	 	congeal; thicken; clot; N. coagulant
metaphysical	 	pertaining to speculative philosophy; of metaphysics; N. metaphysics: branch of philosophy that examines the nature of reality
compulsive	 	resulting from compulsion
incumbent	 	obligatory; imposed as an obligation; currently holding an office; N: person who holds an office
swipe	 	hit with a sweeping motion; N.
deify	 	turn into a god; make a god of; idolize; Ex. Kings were deified; CF. deity
prodigy	 	highly gifted child; person with exceptional talents; marvel; wonder
hazy	 	slightly obscure; misty; unclear; N. haze: light mist or smoke; confused state of mind
incidental	 	not essential; minor; N: something incidental
decrepit	 	weak and in bad condition from old age or hard use; Ex. decrepit old chair/man
methodical	 	systematic; N. method: systematic method of procedure
malapropos	 	inappropriate; ADV.
capacity	 	mental or physical ability; role; position or duty; ability to accommodate; Ex. in my capacity as president
preempt	 	prevent in advance; head off(forestall); forestall by acting first; appropriate for oneself before others; supplant; take the place of; displace; Ex. preempt any attempts; ADJ. preemptive
testator	 	maker of a will; CF. testatrix
libertine	 	debauched person; dissolute or licentious person; rou\'e; CF. free
consolidation	 	unification; process of becoming firmer or stronger; V. consolidate: merge; strengthen
veto	 	vested power to reject a bill; exercise of this right; V: prevent or forbid by exercising the power of veto
dishonor	 	disgrace; N. ADJ. dishonorable
hull	 	husk; dry outer covering of a seed; frame or body of a ship
inception	 	start; beginning
grandeur	 	impressiveness; stateliness; majesty
extirpate	 	root up; uproot; destroy completely
bicker	 	quarrel
euphemism	 	mild expression in place of an unpleasant one; ADJ. euphemistic
ordeal	 	severe trial or affliction; difficult experience; trial(test of patience or endurance); affliction
limber	 	flexible; supple; pliable; V.
astronomical	 	enormously large or extensive
presage	 	foretell; be a warning or sign of; N: presentiment; foreboding; omen
uproar	 	noisy confusion
nuptial	 	related to marriage or the wedding ceremony; N. nuptials: wedding ceremony
chaotic	 	in utter disorder
shack	 	crude cabin
caucus	 	private meeting of a group of people in a political party to select officers or determine policy; CF. the Caucus club of Boston
inveterate	 	deep-rooted; habitual; CF. grow old
besiege	 	surround with armed forces; harass (with requests); annoy continually
relish	 	enjoy; savor; N: enjoyment; zest
dull	 	(of colors or surfaces) not bright; cloudy; overcast; boring; (of edge or sound) not sharp; not rapid; sluggish; slow in thinking and understanding; stupid; V.
monumental	 	massive; impressively large; built as a monument
attire	 	clothe; N: clothing; array; apparel
theocracy	 	government run by religious leaders
cerebral	 	pertaining to the brain or intellect; intellectual rather than emotional; CF. cerebrum
affluence	 	abundance; wealth
carnage	 	destruction of life; slaughter; killing of large numbers of people or animals
whelp	 	young animal (esp. of the dog or cat family); young wolf, dog, tiger, etc.
smother	 	kill from lack of air; suppress; cover thickly; Ex. smothered in little stickers
granulate	 	form into grains or granules; N. granule: grain or particle
tessellated	 	mosaic; inlaid; Ex. tessellated pattern
mutablility	 	ability to change in form; fickleness; ADJ. mutable: able to change; fickle; CF. mutate; CF. mutant
Epicurean	 	believing that pleasure is good and suffering is bad and should be avoided; N.
abyss	 	enormous chasm; vast bottomless pit
retrograde	 	go backwards; recede; degenerate; deteriorate; ADJ.
psychic	 	of psyche; mental; of or possessing extraordinary mental powers
encircle	 	surround
tantrum	 	fit of bad temper; fit of petulance; caprice; Ex. The child went into tantrums.
abhor	 	detest; hate
lassitude	 	languor; weariness; listlessness
wean	 	accustom a baby not to nurse; accustom (the young of a mammal) to take nourishment other than by suckling; give up a cherished activity; cause to gradually leave (an interest or habit); Ex. wean oneself from cigarettes
propellant(propellent)	 	substance which propels or drives forward (such as an explosive charge or a rocket fuel)
sententious	 	pithy; terse; concise; aphoristic
elysian	 	relating to paradise; blissful
adversity	 	great hardship or affliction; misfortune; calamitous event
hermetic	 	concerning alchemy or magic; obscure and mysterious; occult
artisan	 	a manually skilled worker
annex	 	attach; add to a large thing; take possession of; incorporate (territory) into a larger existing political unit (by force); N: building added to a large one
refulgent	 	effulgent; brilliant; brightly shining; gleaming; Ex. refulgent moon
enrapture	 	please intensely; fill with rapture and delight
primp	 	groom oneself with care; adorn oneself
resort	 	turn to for help; Ex. resort to violence; N.
beget	 	father; become the father of; produce; give rise to
rostrum	 	raised platform for speech-making; pulpit
agility	 	nimbleness; ability to move quickly
conjugal	 	pertaining to marriage
woeful	 	sad; (of something bad) deplorable; deplorably bad; Ex. woeful housing conditions
oatmeal	 	crushed oats used for making porridge
periphery	 	outside edge especially of a round surface; perimeter; Ex. periphery of the town
chivalrous	 	courteous; faithful; brave; N. chivalry
h 26
harry	 	harass, annoy, torment (by repeated attacks); raid
prologue	 	introduction (to a poem or play)
piebald	 	of different colors; mottled; spotted in different colors (esp. in black and white); Ex. piebald horse; CF. pie+bald
polemical(polemic)	 	aggressive in verbal attack; disputatious (rather than simply expressing opinions)
maroon	 	leave helpless on a deserted island or coast; ADJ. red brown
talon	 	claw of bird
pander	 	cater to (the low desires of others)
archives	 	public records; place where public records are kept
impious	 	irreverent
discompose	 	disturb the composure of; confuse
residue	 	remainder; balance
febrile	 	feverish
ebb	 	(of the tide) recede; lessen; diminish; N. OP. flow: rise of tide
frenetic(phrenetic)	 	frenzied; frantic
bacchanalian	 	drunken
tantalize	 	tease; excite by exposing something desirable while keeping it out of reach; torture with disappointment; CF. Tantalus: Greek mythological figure
diminution	 	lessening; reduction in size; V. diminish
solicitous	 	anxious; worried; concerned; eager; Ex. solicitous to do something; N. solicitude
contiguous	 	adjacent to; touching upon
refrain	 	abstain from; resist; forbear; N: chorus
dissolution	 	disintegration; reduction to a liquid form; looseness in morals; sensual indulgence; debauchery; ADJ. dissolute: lacking in moral restraint; leading an immoral life
elusive	 	evasive; not frank; baffling; hard to grasp, catch, or understand; V. elude: escape from; escape the understanding or grasp of; Ex. elude the hunter; Ex. His name eludes me.
aegis	 	shield; protection; defense
feline	 	of a member of the cat family; N.
downcast	 	disheartened; dejected; sad; directed downward
diatribe	 	bitter scolding or denunciation; invective; abuse
license	 	official or legal permission; latitude of action or speech; excessive freedom that causes harm or damage; V.
didactic	 	(of speech or writing) intended to teach a moral lesson; teaching; instructional; N. didacticism
infiltrate	 	pass into or through; penetrate or enter (an organization) sneakily; Ex. infiltrate the troops into enemy territory; CF. infiltrator
assumption	 	something taken for granted; the taking over or taking possession of; Ex. her assumption of power; V. assume
encomiastic	 	praising; eulogistic; N. encomium: very high praise; eulogy
behemoth	 	huge creature; something of monstrous size or power
penology	 	study of prison management and criminal rehabilitation
meticulous	 	excessively careful (with great attention to detail); painstaking; scrupulous
embrace	 	hug; clasp with the arms; adopt or espouse; accept readily; encircle; include; Ex. embrace the cause/socialism; Ex. all-embracing; CF. brace; CF. bracelet
luminary	 	celebrity (in a specific field); dignitary; object that gives light (as a celestial body)
parry	 	ward off a blow; deflect; Ex. He parried the unwelcome question very skillfully; N. CF. 막는다는 개념이 아님
desiccate	 	dry up
dominant	 	exercising the most influence; high and easily seen; stronger than the other part of a system; not recessive
poseur	 	person who pretends to be sophisticated, elegant, etc., to impress others; person who poses; CF. pose
oblique	 	indirect; slanting (deviating from the perpendicular or from a straight line); Ex. oblique reference
reverie	 	daydream; abstracted musing
corporeal	 	bodily (rather than spiritual); of a bodily form; material; tangible
thresh	 	beat (cereal plants) with a machine or flail to separate the grains from the straw
indemnify	 	make secure against damage or loss; compensate for damage or loss; CF. make uninjured
scavenge	 	hunt through discarded materials for usable items or food; search, especially for food; N. scavenger: one who scavenges; animal that feeds on refuse and carrion
pulse	 	rhythmical throbbing of arteries; brief sudden change in a normally constant quantity; V: pulsate
egress	 	exit; opening for going out; act of going out; OP. ingress
gradation	 	series of gradual stages; degree in such a progression
incredulity	 	tendency to disbelief
manifold	 	many in number or kind; numerous; varied
renegade	 	deserter; traitor; ADJ.
haughtiness	 	pride; arrogance; ADJ. haughty
graduate	 	arrange into categories or grades; divide into marked intervals (for use in measurement); Ex. graduated ruler
amok(amuck)	 	in a state of rage; Ex. run amok
verve	 	enthusiasm (as in artistic performance or composition); liveliness; vigor
maelstrom	 	violent whirlpool; violent or tublent situation; CF. stream
centrifuge	 	machine that separates substances by whirling them
homogeneous	 	of the same kind; uniform in composition throughout
edict	 	decree (especially one issued by a sovereign); official command
margin	 	border; room; allowance beyond what is needed; Ex. margin of safety
vernal	 	pertaining to spring
skulk	 	move furtively and secretly; Ex. He skulked through the less fashionable sections of the city.
drip	 	fall or let fall in drops; shed drops; N: action or sound of falling in drops; liquid that falls in drops
rebuttal	 	refutation; response with contrary evidence; V. rebut: refute; disprove
predetermine	 	determine in advance; predestine; settle or decide beforehand; influence markedly
paraphrase	 	restate a passage in one's own words while retaining thought of author; N: restatement of a text in other words
stoic	 	stoical; impassive; unmoved by joy or grief; N. CF. stoicism
clap	 	strike the palms of the hands together with a sudden explosive sound; come together suddenly with a sharp sound; put or send promptly; Ex. clap the thief in jail; N: clapping; loud or explosive sound; CF. applause
wanderlust	 	strong longing to travel
pliable	 	flexible; easily influenced; yielding; adaptable
pedagogue	 	teacher; CF. child leader
protagonist	  leader or noticeable supporter of an idea; chief character in a play or story
unmitigated	 	(of something bad) not moderated; unrelieved or immoderate; without qualification; absolute; Ex. unmitigated disaster
obelisk	 	tall column tapering(becoming gradually narrower toward the end) and ending in a pyramid
blowhard	 	talkative boaster; braggart
interpolate	 	insert between
anarchy	 	absence of governing body; state of disorder
felon	 	person convicted of a grave crime; CF. felony: serious crime
braggadocio	 	boasting
curator	 	superintendent; manager (in charge of a museum or a library)
nimble	 	quick in movement; agile; quick in understanding; Ex. nimble climber/mind
perdition	 	damnation; complete ruin; hell
cajole	 	persuade by praise or false promise; coax; wheedle
run-down	 	(of a place) dilapidated; in a bad condition; (of a person) weak or exhausted
swindler	 	cheater
nip	 	snip off; stop something's growth or development; bite; make numb with cold; Ex. nip the plan; Ex. A guard dog nipped the postman; Ex. fingers nipped by the extreme chill
parvenu	 	upstart; newly rich person
impolitic	 	not wise; not expedient; not politic
remunerative	 	(of work) compensating; rewarding; profitable; well-paid; V. remunerate: reward; pay (someone) for work or trouble
epic	 	long heroic poem, novel, or similar work of art (celebrating the feats of a hero); ADJ: (of stories or events) resembling an epic; grand
disparity	 	difference; condition of inequality; OP. parity
dispel	 	scatter; drive away; cause to vanish
brand	 	trademark; mark burned on the hide of an animal; mark burned into the flesh of criminals; mark of disgrace; V: mark with a brand; give a lasting bad name; stigmatize; Ex. The press branded him a liar.
increment	 	increase
accost	 	approach and speak first to a person
scad	 	a great quantity; Ex. scads of clothes
h 27
abstinence	 	restraint from pleasant things, esp. eating or drinking; CF. abstention: act of abstaining from vote
slough	 	(of a snake) shed or cast off (dead outer skin); N: outer layer that is shed
execute	 	put into effect; carry out; kill as a lawful punishment; N. execution
parochial	 	narrow in scope or outlook; provincial; related to parishes
affidavit	 	written statement made under oath (for use as proof in a court of law)
chaplain	 	clergyman attached to a chapel
entourage	 	group of attendants; retinue; CF. surround
induct	 	place formally in office; install; admit as a member; initiate; N. induction: inducting; process of deriving general principles from particular facts
remote	 	distant in manner; aloof
doldrums	 	blues; listlessness(lack of spirit or energy); slack(inactive) period; period of stagnation; ocean area near the equator where ships cannot move because there is no wind; Ex. in the doldrums
dulcet	 	sweet sounding; pleasing to the ear; melodious
dyslexia	 	word blindness; learning disorder marked by impairment of the ability to read
malleable	 	(of a metal) capable of being shaped by pounding(beating); pliable; (of someone) impressionable(easily influenced); easily controlled; tractable
eventual	 	happening at last as a result; Ex. eventual victory
imponderable	 	weightless; that cannot undergo precise evaluation; CF. pound
pervert	 	corrupt; turn from right to wrong; misuse; Ex. perverted sexual desire/scientific knowledge; N: person whose sexual behavior is not natural
climactic	 	relating to the highest point; N. climax; CF. climatic
superficial	 	of the surface; not deep; shallow; not thorough; trivial; Ex. superficial analysis/knowledge
argot	 	slang; speech spoken by only a small group of people
genus	 	division of animals or plants, below a family and above a species
withdrawn	 	introverted; retiring; remote
pore	 	study industriously; ponder; scrutinize; Ex. pore over the book; N.
empathy	 	ability to identify with another's feelings, ideas, etc.; identification with and understanding of another's feelings; V. empathize; CF. sympathy
demise	 	death
hyperbole	 	exaggeration; overstatement; ADJ. hyperbolic: of hyperbole; of a hyperbola
yoke	 	join together; unite; N: crossbar used to joining two draft animals
lament	 	grieve; express sorrow; N. lamentation
totem	 	animal, plant, or natural object serving as a symbol of a clan or family; representation of this; Ex. totem pole
autopsy	 	examination of a dead body; postmortem; V.
venturesome	 	(of a person) bold; adventurous; daring; (of an action) risky
indefatigable	 	tireless; untiring; showing no sign of getting tired
insensible	 	unconscious; unresponsive; insensitive; unaware; imperceptible; Ex. insensible of his danger/to pain; Ex. insensible change; CF. not the opposite of sensible
squabble	 	minor quarrel; bickering; V: engage in a minor quarrel; Ex. squabbling children
volatile	 	changeable; of a quickly changing nature (as of temper); mercurial; tending to violence; evaporating rapidly; Ex. volatile character/situation in the street
ewe	 	female sheep
covetous	 	avaricious; desirous of (someone else's possessions); V. covet: desire eagerly (someone else's possessions)
meek	 	submissive; patient and long-suffering
impetuous	 	violent; hasty; rash; impulsive; without careful thought; Ex. impetuous decision
sundry	 	miscellaneous; various; several; N. sundries: small miscellaneous items
scurry	 	move hastily; hurry; move briskly
ineffectual	 	not effective; not having a desired effect; weak
potent	 	powerful; convincing; persuasive; greatly influential
barrage	 	barrier laid down by artillery fire; overwhelming profusion; large number of questions or statements; Ex. a barrage of criticism
anchor	 	secure or fasten firmly; be fixed in place; N. anchorage
graphic	 	pertaining to the art of delineating; vividly described
cunning	 	clever in deceiving; sly; N: cleverness in deceiving; deceit
subjugate	 	conquer; bring under control
turgid	 	swollen; distended (as from liquid)
scabbard	 	case for a sword blade; sheath
reactionary	 	strongly opposed to social or political change; opposing progress; politically ultraconservative; N. OP. radical
illimitable	 	infinite; limitless
undulating	 	moving with a wavelike motion; V. undulate; CF. und: wave
pass_off	 	present falsely; represent falsely to be
interloper	 	intruder; one who interferes
concord	 	harmony; accord
wade	 	walk through a substance, such as water, that impedes movement
delusion	 	false belief; hallucination; deluding; Ex. delusions of grandeur; Ex. under the delusion that
sublime	 	causing deep feelings of wonder, joy, respect, etc.; exalted; noble and uplifting; utter
convoke	 	call together; Ex. convoke Parliament; N. convocation
effective	 	effectual; producing a strong response; striking; in operation; in effect; Ex. effective speech/photograph
hortatory	 	encouraging; exhortive; marked by exhortation; CF. exhort
squalor	 	condition of being squalid; filth; degradation; dirty neglected state; ADJ. squalid: dirty; sordid; morally repulsive; Ex. squalid story
bivouac	 	temporary encampment; camp without tents; V.
anguish	 	acute pain; extreme suffering
severity	 	harshness; intensity; sternness; austerity; ADJ. severe: harsh; strict; extremely violent or intense
omnivorous	 	eating both plant and animal food; devouring everything
smear	 	spread or cover with a sticky substance; N: mark made by smearing
edifice	 	building (of imposing size)
hydrophobia	 	fear of water; rabies
grouch	 	bad-tempered complaint; person who keeps complaining; V: complain; grumble
tedium	 	boredom; weariness; ADJ. tedious
carcinogenic	 	causing cancer; N. carcinogen
adage	 	wise saying; proverb
obsidian	 	black volcanic rock
pulpit	 	raised platform used in preaching (in a church)
luxuriate	 	take pleasure in great comfort
skim	 	read or glance through quickly; touch lightly in passing; brush; remove from the surface of a liquid
belligerent	 	quarrelsome
vise	 	vice; tool for holding work in place; clamping device
dissipate	 	squander; waste foolishly; scatter
cascade	 	small waterfall
tart	 	sharp to the taste; acid-tasting; caustic; sarcastic; Ex. tart apple/reply
miscreant	 	wretch; wrongdoer; villain; Ex. kindness to the miscreant; CF. believe
doggerel	 	poor verse
atheistic	 	denying the existence of God; N. atheism
uninhibited	 	having no inhibitions; free in behavior and feelings
frolicsome	 	prankish; gay; playful; merry; frisky
inexorable	 	relentless; unyielding; implacable; not capable of being changed by entreaty or efforts; Ex. inexorable price rises
surge	 	powerful movement of or like a wave; V.
surrogate	 	substitute; person or thing used in place of another; Ex. surrogate mother; ADJ.
hue_and_cry	 	outcry; loud cry or clamor; strong protest; Ex. hue and cry against the new rule
pachyderm	 	thick-skinned animal
emetic	 	substance causing vomiting; ADJ.
ironic	 	expressing irony; occurring in an unexpected and contrary manner
discrete	 	separate; unconnected
problematic	 	causing a problem; open to doubt; doubtful; unsettled; questionable; Ex. Whether the arena will ever be completed is problematic.
purgatory	 	place of spiritual expiation; temporary state or place in which the souls must expiate their sins
h 28
insalubrious	 	unwholesome; not healthful; Ex. insalubrious place
meddlesome	 	interfering; V. meddle: interfere
cadet	 	student at a military school
spruce	 	neat and trim in appearance; smart; Ex. Be spruce for your job interview; V.
jumble	 	mix in a confused way
grimace	 	facial distortion to show feeling such as pain, disgust, etc; V.
humble	 	of low rank or position; modest; having a low opinion of oneself and a high opinion of others; unassuming; not proud; V. humiliate: make humble; cause to feel ashamed or to lose the respect of others
lurid	 	wild; sensational; graphic; gruesome; horrible; Ex. lurid details of the murder
application	 	diligent attention; diligence; V. apply oneself
psychosis	 	mental disorder; ADJ. N. psychotic
hoary	 	white with age
vacillate	 	waver (in opinion); fluctuate; sway to and fro; N. vacillation
sturdy	 	strong and firm (in the body)
emblazon	 	ornament richly (a shield or flag); N. emblazonment
optometrist	 	one who fits glasses to remedy visual defects
impetus	 	moving force; momentum; force of a moving body; incentive; stimulus; impulse
optional	 	not compulsory; left to one's choice; N. option: act of choosing; choice; freedom or power to choose; something available as a choice; Ex. have no option; Ex. two options
nadir	 	lowest point; point on the celestial sphere diametrically opposite the zenith
low	 	moo; make the sound of a cow
pastiche	 	imitation of another's style in musical composition or in writing; work of art openly imitating the works of other artists
selective	  careful in choosing; having an effect only on certain things; not general; Ex. eclectic weed killer
eddy	 	swirling current of water, air, etc.; V.
languid	 	lacking energy or vitality; weary; sluggish; listless
vestige	 	trace; remains; Ex. vestiges of some ancient religion
partisan	 	one-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party (with dislike of any others); N: strong supporter of a party; guerrilla
implicit	 	understood but not stated; implied; unquestioning and complete; Ex. implicit trust
thesis	 	opinion put forward and supported by reasoned arguments
symbiosis	 	interdependent relationship (between groups, species) often mutually beneficial; ADJ. symbiotic; CF. together + life
sneak	 	move, give, or take in a quiet, stealthy way; N: one who sneaks; ADJ. sneaky
minutiae	 	petty or trivial details; CF. minutia
pass\'e	 	old-fashioned; past the prime
dissent	 	disagree
centigrade	 	denoting a widely used temperature scale (basically same as Celsius)
whit	 	small amount; smallest speck; Ex. not a whit of
arroyo	 	gully; narrow channel formed by rainwater
splice	 	join together end to end to make one continuous length; fasten together; unite; Ex. splice two strips of tape; N.
makeshift	 	temporary expedient or substitute (in the case of urgent need); Ex. makeshift shelter
monochromatic	 	having only one color
irate	 	angry; CF. ire: anger; wrath
imposture	 	assuming a false identity; masquerade; CF. impostor
flux	 	flowing; series of changes; fluctuation; Ex. in a state of flux
bulwark	 	strong wall built for defense; earthwork or other strong defense; person who defends
harping	 	tiresome dwelling on a subject; V. harp: dwell on(think or speak a lot about) tediously
profane	 	violate; desecrate (something holy); treat unworthily; be profane for; ADJ: secular; nonreligious; irreverent for holy things
mincing	 	affectedly dainty(delicate); V. mince: cut (esp. meat) into very small pieces; walk with exaggerated primness; walk in an unnatural way, taking little short steps; Ex. The actor minced across the stage; CF. mincemeat; CF. mincer
partial	 	incomplete; favoring one side over another; having a liking for something
sedentary	 	requiring sitting; done while sitting; not moving from one place to another; settled; Ex. sedentary job/population
tan	 	convert (hide) into leather; make brown by exposure to the sun
equipoise	 	balance; balancing force; equilibrium
recuperate	 	recover; return to health; regain; Ex. recuperate losses
fiat	 	command; arbitrary order; Ex. presidential fiat; CF. let it be done
crave	 	desire; want intensely
putrid	 	decayed and foul-smelling; foul; rotten; decayed; N. putridity
puissant	 	powerful; strong; potent; N. puissance: power
vendor	 	seller
infirmity	 	weakness
shoot	 	new growth from a plant
arcade	 	a covered passageway usually lined with shops
propriety	 	fitness; quality of being proper; correct conduct; conformity to prevailing customs and usages; CF. proprietor, proprietary
medium	 	element that is a creature's natural environment; nutrient setting in which microorganisms are cultivated; appropriate occupation or means of expression; channel of communication; compromise; middle position between extremes; intervening substance through which something else is transmitted
deploy	 	spread out (troops) in an extended though shallow battle line; distribute (persons or forces) systematically or strategically
rectify	 	set right; correct; CF. rect-: right
jabber	 	chatter rapidly or unintelligibly
petrify	 	turn to stone; cause to become stonelike; stun or paralyze
condone	 	overlook; forgive; give tacit approval; excuse
strut	 	pompous walk; V: walk in a self-important manner
collaborate	 	work together; cooperate treasonably with the enemy
rationalize	 	make rational; devise false reasons for (one's behavior); offer an excuse; give a plausible reason for an action in place of a true, less admirable ones; N. rationalization
sensitization	 	process of being made sensitive or acutely responsive to an external agent or substance; V. sensitize: make or become sensitive
underlying	 	lying below; fundamental
bureaucracy	 	overregulated administrative system marked by red tape; ADJ. bureaucratic
martinet	 	strict disciplinarian; person who demands total obedience to rules and orders; CF. Jean Martinet
remediable	 	reparable
urchin	 	mischievous child (usually a boy); CF. urchin: hedgehog; CF. porcupine: pig with spikes ?; CF. sea urchin
squash	 	crush; quash; suppress
impassioned	 	(of speech) filled with passion; fervent
perpetuate	 	make perpetual; make something last for a long time; preserve from extinction; N. perpetuity
anthropomorphic	 	having human form or characteristics
nondescript	 	undistinctive; ordinary; ordinary-looking; Ex. nondescript fellow in a crowd
prognosticate	 	predict (according to present indications)
agog	 	highly excited; intensely curious
apparent	 	evident; easily seen or understood; appearing as such; Ex. apparent improvement
bogus	 	counterfeit; not authentic; intentionally false; Ex. bogus interview
miserly	 	stingy; mean
vanguard	 	forerunners; foremost position of an army; advance forces; foremost position in a trend or movement; CF. rearguard
mitigate	 	appease; moderate; make or become less in force or intensity
objective	 	not influenced by emotions; fair; N: goal; aim
acoustics	 	science of sound; quality that makes a room easy or hard to hear in
savant	 	scholar; learned person; CF. savoir: know
fraught	 	filled (with something unpleasant); full; Ex. fraught with danger and difficulties; CF. freight
nonsense	 	speech or writing with no meaning; foolish behavior or language; Ex. make (a) nonsense of: spoil; cause to fail
penance	 	self-imposed punishment for sin; Ex. do penance for one's sins; CF. penitent
cede	 	yield (title or territory) to (esp. after losing a war); surrender formally; N. cession
unanimity	 	complete agreement; ADJ. unanimous
reprimand	 	reprove severely; rebuke; N.
expertise	 	specialized knowledge (in a particular field); expert skill
amicable	 	peaceful; politely friendly; not quarrelsome; Ex. amicable settlement
h 29
glitter	 	shine brightly with flashing points of light; Ex. glittering diamond ring; N: sparkling light; attractiveness; glamor; Ex. glitter of the sun on the waves
dilatory	 	delaying; tending to delay
inept	 	unsuited; inappropriate; lacking skill; incompetent; CF. inapt: (of statements or ideas) inappropriate
gorge	 	stuff oneself (with food); glut; CF. gorgeous: dazzlingly beautiful
vent	 	small opening; outlet (as of fumes or a gas); Ex. He gave vent to his anger by kicking the chair.
skimp	 	provide or use scantily; live very economically; Ex. skimp on necessities; ADJ. skimpy: inadequate in amount; scanty; stingy; niggardly
yeoman	 	man or farmer owning small estate; middle-class farmer
construe	 	explain; interpret; Ex. construe her silence as meaning that she agreed; CF. misconstrue
implement	 	put into effect; enforce; carry out; supply with tools; Ex. implement the plan/suggestion; N: tool or instrument
audit	 	examination of accounts of a business; official examination; V.
seedy	 	run-down; decrepit; disreputable; having many seeds; Ex. seedy downtown hotel
juggernaut	 	irresistible crushing force; overwhelming advancing force that crushes everything in its path
vertebrate	 	having a backbone or spinal column; N: group of animals having a segmented spinal column
epitaph	 	inscription in memory of a dead person (as on a tombstone)
mire	 	entangle; stick in swampy ground; stick or sink in mire; N: bog; deep mud; Ex. sucked deeper into the mire
revoke	 	cancel; retract; CF. irrevocable
peruse	 	read through with care; N. perusal
indignation	 	anger at an injustice; Ex. righteous indignation; ADJ. indignant
niggle	 	spend too much time on minor points (esp. when finding fault); find fault; Ex. niggle over details; ADJ. niggling
slag	 	glassy residue from smelting metal; dross; waste matter
asunder	 	into parts; apart; V. sunder
sleazy	 	shabby and dirty; flimsy; insubstantial; Ex. sleazy back-street hotel/fabric
hallucination	 	delusion; false idea; false perception of objects with a compelling sense of their reality; objects so perceived; V. hallucinate; ADJ. hallucinatory
impervious	 	impenetrable; incapable of being damaged or distressed; incapable of being affected (in one's opinions); Ex. impervious to water/criticism
jaunt	 	trip; short journey
solemnity	 	seriousness; gravity
thermal	 	pertaining to heat; producing heat; warm; Ex. thermal bath; N: rising current of warm air
scotch	 	stamp out(put an end to); thwart; hinder; Ex. scotch the rumor; CF. cut; CF. 활동을 줄이는 의미
cameo	 	shell or jewel carved in relief; star's special appearance in a minor role in a film
unwieldy	 	awkward (to carry or move); cumbersome; unmanageable
stygian	 	unpleasantly dark; gloomy; hellish; deathly; CF. Styx: the chief river in the subterranean land of the dead
touchy	 	oversensitive; easily offended; irasible; delicate; needing delicate handling; Ex. touchy situation
skinflint	 	miser; stingy person
insurgent	 	rebellious; N.
replica	 	copy
suckle	 	give or take milk at the breast or udder
frolic	 	play and jump about happily; frisk; Ex. frolicking young lambs
expatriate	 	exile; someone who has withdrawn from his native land; V: exile; banish; leave one's country
maladroit	 	clumsy; not skillful; awkward; bungling
lumen	 	unit of light energy (one candle's worth)
sever	 	separate; cut off (a part) from a whole; break up (a relationship); N. severance; CF. severance pay: extra pay given an employee upon leaving a position
diurnal	 	daily; occurring during the daytime
predator	 	predatory animal or bird; predatory person; creature that seizes and devours another animal; person who robs or exploits others; ADJ. predatory: living by preying on other organisms; plundering; N. predation
motility	 	ability to move spontaneously; ADJ. motile: moving spontaneously
litotes	 	understatement for emphasis; Ex. ``not bad(=pretty good)''
renown	 	fame; ADJ. renowned
blues	 	state of depression or melancholy; style of slow, mournful music (evolved from southern Black American songs)
concomitant	 	that which accompanies; Ex. Deafnes is a frequent concommitant of old age; ADJ: existing or happening together with something else
conceit	 	vanity or self-love; too high opinion of one's own value; extravagant metaphor (in poetry)
decelerate	 	slow down
indigent	 	poor; destitute
shrewd	 	clever; astute
incredulous	 	withholding belief; skeptical; showing disbelief
tremor	 	trembling; slight quiver (as of the earth or from nervous agitation)
concur	 	agree; coincide; happen at the same time
smelt	 	melt (ore) for separating and removing the metal; melt or blend ores changing their chemical composition
hap	 	chance; luck
deducible	 	derived by reasoning; V. deduce: infer; derive by reasoning
demolition	 	destruction; V. demolish
aphorism	 	pithy maxim or saying; ADJ. aphoristic
motto	 	brief statement used to express a principle
confluence	 	flowing together; the place where two rivers flow together; crowd; gathering together
bludgeon	 	club; heavy-headed weapon; V.
vile	 	despicable; unpleasant; disgusting; Ex. vile slander
glare	 	shine intensely and blindingly; stare fixedly and angrily; N.
convert	 	one who has adopted a different religion or opinion; V: change into another form; (persuade to) adopt a particular religion or belief
chisel	 	swindle or cheat; N: wedgelike tool for cutting
avocation	 	secondary or minor occupation
finery	 	beautiful clothes for a special occasion
lush	 	(of a plant or grass) growing very well
marrow	 	soft fatty tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of blood cells
vulgar	 	of the common people; deficient in refinement; not refined; coarse; Ex. vulgar display of wealth; N. vulgarism: vulgarity; crudely indecent word; CF. vulgarian: vulgar person; boor; lout
emolument	 	salary; payment for an office; compensation
abysmal	 	bottomless
cavalcade	 	procession of riders or horse-drawn carriages; parade; CF. cavalry
idiosyncrasy	 	individual trait usually odd in nature; behavioral peculiarity; eccentricity; attitude, behavior, or opinion peculiar to a person; anything highly individual or eccentric; ADJ. idiosyncratic
constitution	 	constituting; system of laws; composition of something; physical makeup or structure of a person; Ex. men with strong constitutions
enterprising	 	full of initiative; showing enterprise
invulnerable	 	incapable of injury; impossible to damage or injure
prime	 	period of ideal or peak condition; earliest or beginning stage; Ex. in the prime of life; Ex. prime of the year(spring); ADJ: first in importance or rank; first; V: make ready; prepare
corollary	 	natural consequence (which naturally follows from something else)
brocade	 	rich, figured(patterned) fabric
laceration	 	torn ragged wound; V. lacerate: tear (the skin as with broken glass); wound
pretentious	 	ostentatious; showy; pompous; making unjustified claims; overambitious; Ex. pretentious films that claim to be art
pharisee	 	Pharisee: member of an ancient Jewish group that emphasized strict observance of the Mosaic law (considering themselves very holy); hypocritical self-righteous person
chore	 	daily domestic task (such as cleaning, cooking, and shopping); unpleasant task
ethnic	 	relating to races
cognate	 	having a common origin; related linguistically; allied by blood; similar or akin in nature; Ex. cognate languages; N.
stagnant	 	(of water) not flowing (often bad-smelling); motionless; stale; not developing; inactive; dull; Ex. stagnant industrial output
hide	 	skin of an animal
consternation	 	great shock; dismay
torrid	 	(of weather) hot or scorching; passionate; Ex. torrid love affairs
delirium	 	mental disorder marked by confusion; uncontrolled excitement; ADJ. delirious
wastrel	 	waster; profligate
overthrow	 	topple; N.
smattering	 	slight knowledge; small scattered number or amount; Ex. smattering of German
throng	 	crowd (of people or things); V.
h 30
document	 	provide written evidence (for a claim); record with documents; N.
mongrel	 	plant or animal (esp. a dog) of mixed breed; ADJ.
dazzle	 	make blind with a sudden intense light; amaze; fill with wonder
vouch	 	give a personal guarantee; Ex. I can vouch for his integrity; N. voucher
lopsided	 	heavier or larger on one side than the other; Ex. lopsided way of walking
indigenous	 	native; Ex. plant indigenous to the New World
rivet	 	metal pin used for fastening metal plates together; V: fasten with a rivet; engross
overture	 	musical introduction to a long musical piece; first offer or proposal (to begin talks in the hope of reaching an agreement); Ex. overtures for peace
solecism	 	nonstandard grammatical construction; construction that is flagrantly incorrect grammatically; violation of social etiquette
jaunty	 	cheerful and pleased with life; lighthearted; animated; easy and carefree; dapper in appearance; Ex. jaunty person/hat
practical	 	based on experience; of or acquired through practice (rather than theory); useful; Ex. practical man
factotum	 	handyman; person who does all kinds of work; CF. do everything
parable	 	short simple story teaching a moral
voluble	 	fluent; talkative; glib; N. volubility
castrate	 	remove the sex organs (of a male animal or person)
malevolent	 	wishing evil; exhibiting ill will; N. malevolence
camaraderie	 	good-fellowship; CF. comrade
implore	 	beg
nettle	 	irritate; annoy; vex; ADJ. nettlesome
blackball	 	vote against (an applicant); ostracize; N: negative vote
ecosystem	 	ecological community together with its environment
discredit	 	defame; disgrace; destroy confidence in; disbelieve; N. CF. discreditable: causing discredit; shameful
bilious	 	suffering from indigestion; sick from having too much bile; irritable; easily irritated
rococo	 	ornate; highly decorated; N. CF. 18th century
disapprobation	 	disapproval; condemnation
shear	 	remove (fleece or hair) by cutting; remove the hair or fleece from; cut with or as if with shears; N: shears; pair of scissors
verbiage	 	pompous array of words; too many unnecessary words; wordiness
invincible	 	unconquerable
truncate	 	cut the top off; shorten
allay	 	calm; pacify
disdain	 	treat with scorn or contempt
surmount	 	overcome
shoddy	 	made of inferior material; sham; not genuine; inferior; dishonest; Ex. shoddy goods/trick
phlegmatic	 	calm and unexcitable; not easily disturbed; CF. phlegm: sticky mucus produced in the respiratory tract
topography	 	physical features of a region (such as the shape and height); CF. topo-: place
nurse	 	suckle; take care of (as a nurse); bear in mind; Ex. nursing mother; Ex. nurse a hope/grudge against someone
fractious	 	unruly; peevish; cranky; bad-tempered; Ex. fractious horse
negligence	 	neglect; failure to take reasonable care; ADJ. negligent: neglectful; lax; not taking enough care
trappings	 	outward decorations; ornaments (as an outward sign of rank)
amoral	 	nonmoral; having no understanding of right and wrong
ascendancy	 	controlling influence; position of controlling influence; CF. in the ascendant
swelter	 	(of a person) suffer from oppressive heat; be oppressed by heat
exploit	 	make use of, sometimes unjustly; N. exploitation
slap	 	hit quickly with the flat part of the hand; N. CF. smack
magnitude	 	greatness (in size or extent); extent
slander	 	defamation; utterance of false and malicious statements; V. ADJ. slanderous
insomnia	 	wakefulness; inability to sleep
florescence	 	condition or period of flowering
plenary	 	(of power) complete; full; fully attended by all qualified members; Ex. plenary power
portend	 	foretell; presage; be a sign or warning of; N. portent: sign; omen; forewarning
vaunted	 	boasted; bragged; highly publicized; V. vaunt: boast; brag
pernicious	 	very harmful; deadly; very destructive; Ex. pernicious effect/anemia
philanthropist	 	lover of mankind; doer of good; N. philanthropy
amplify	 	increase in size or effect; expand; broaden or clarify by expanding; intensify; make stronger; Ex. amplify one's remarks with a graph
perforate	 	pierce; put a hole through
latent	 	present but not yet noticeable or active; dormant; hidden; N. latency; CF. potential
blemish	 	mar; spoil the beauty or perfection of; N: flaw or defect (that spoils perfection); Ex. blemishes in the crystal; CF. unblemished
gibe	 	mock; make jeering remarks; N: jeering remarks
inebriate	 	make drunk; intoxicate; N. intoxicated person
tertiary	 	third in order or rank
wry	 	(esp. of an expression of the face) twisted; with a humorous twist (expressing displeasure)
dowdy	 	untidy (of a woman or clothes); slovenly; dressed in an unattractive way; shabby; CF. unattractive woman
aphasia	 	loss of speech due to injury or illness
coax	 	persuade by flattery
jeopardize	 	endanger; imperil; put at risk; N. jeopardy: danger
congeal	 	freeze; coagulate
recite	 	repeat aloud (something learned); describe; Ex. recite his complaints; N. recitation
covenant	 	binding agreement between two groups or people; compact; V: enter into a covenant; promise
primordial	 	existing at the beginning (of time); rudimentary
dynamo	 	generator for producing electricity; energetic person
migratory	 	wandering; V. migrate: move from one region and settle in another; move periodically from one region to another
promote	 	advance in rank; advance; help to flourish; advocate; help actively in forming; publicize or popularize; Ex. Milk promotes health; Ex. promote a match/bill; Ex. promote a new product
clavicle	 	collarbone
legato	 	(of music) played smoothly
modicum	 	limited quantity; small amount; Ex. He does not have a modicum of sense; CF. moderate
tacit	 	understood (without actually being expressed); not put into words; Ex. tacit agreement
nicety	 	precision; accuracy; minute distinction or difference; Ex. to a nicety: exactly; precisely; Ex. distinguish between niceties
mishap	 	unfortunate accident
impiety	 	irreverence; lack of respect for God or piety
amass	 	collect (gradually, in a very large amount)
obfuscate	 	confuse; muddle; cause confusion; make needlessly complex; make so confused as to be difficult to understand
sentient	 	capable of sensation and conscious; aware; sensitive; Ex. sentient creature; N. sentience
grisly	 	ghastly; horrifying; Ex. grisly remains of the bodies
vibrant	 	full of vigor or energy; vibrating
atrocity	 	brutal deed; ADJ. atrocious
sanctimonious	 	displaying ostentatious or hypocritical devoutness; N. sanctimony: hypocritical piety
underscore	 	underline; emphasize
groove	 	long narrow channel made in a surface to guide the movement of something; Ex. groove of the record
incur	 	bring upon oneself
addle	 	make or become confused; muddle; drive crazy; become rotten (egg)
haggle	 	argue about prices (in an attempt to bargain)
pious	 	devout; religious; N. piety
lewd	 	lustful
imbroglio	 	complicated situation (as in a play); painful or complex misunderstanding (as in a play); entanglement; confused mass (as of papers); V. embroil
stentorian	 	(of the voice) extremely loud; CF. Stentor: a loud herald in the Iliad
overwhelm	 	(of water) cover completely; defeat completely by much greater force; Ex. overwhelmed by grief
hypochondriac	 	person unduly worried about his health; worrier without cause about illness; ADJ. CF. hypochondria: neurosis that one is or is becoming ill; CF. abdomen
h 31
confide	 	tell in confidence (to a person one trusts); be confident about
steep	 	soak; saturate; Ex. steep the fabric in the dye bath; ADJ: precipitous
fugitive	 	fleeting or transitory; lasting only a short time; roving(wandering); running away or fleeing as from the law; N: one who flees; Ex. fugitives at large
importune	 	beg persistently; make repeated requests (in an annoying way)
august	 	impressive; majestic
oligarchy	 	government by a privileged few
ruffian	 	violent scoundrel; bully
obligatory	 	binding; required; compulsory; V. oblige: constrain; make grateful; do a favor; accommodate
disquietude	 	uneasiness; anxiety; V. disquiet: make anxious
adversary	 	opponent; enemy
grueling	 	exhausting; Ex. grueling marathon race
dissection	 	analysis; cutting apart in order to examine
vivisection	 	act of dissecting living animals
equestrian	 	rider on horseback; ADJ.
wax	 	increase gradually (as the moon); grow
adventitious	 	accidental; casual; happening by chance
sarcasm	 	cutting ironic remark; scornful remarks; stinging rebuke; ADJ. sarcastic
martyr	 	one who voluntarily suffers death for his or her religion or cause; great sufferer; Ex. martyr to his rheumatism
repast	 	meal; feast; banquet
ferret	 	drive or hunt out of hiding; hunt with ferrets; drive out (as from a hiding place); expel; uncover or discover by searching; Ex. ferret out the secret; N. small fierce animal which catches rats and rabbits by going into their holes
rue	 	regret; lament; mourn; Ex. He will rue the day; N. ADJ. rueful
abide	 	dwell; abide by: comply with; put up with; tolerate; Ex. abide by the rules; Ex. I can't abide rude people.
precarious	 	unsafe; lacking in stability; uncertain; risky; Ex. precarious living
stun	 	make unconscious or numb as by a blow; amaze; astound
expedient	 	suitable (for a particular purpose although not necessarily morally correct); practical; politic(prudent); N: something expedient
gyroscope	 	apparatus used to maintain balance, ascertain direction, etc.
irremediable	 	incurable; uncorrectable; impossible to remedy
shaving	 	very thin piece, usually of wood (cut from a surface with a sharp blade)
unbridled	 	violent; uncontrolled; Ex. unbridled rage/greed
cogitate	 	think over; ponder
proselytize	 	(induce someone to) convert to a religion or belief; N. proselyte: new convert to a doctrine or religion
amalgam	 	combination of different things; mixture of metals (containing mercury) used for filling holes in teeth
expansive	 	(of a person) outgoing and sociable; broad and extensive; able to increase in size
gait	 	manner of walking or running; speed
connoisseur	 	person competent to act as a judge of art, etc. (whose judgments are respected); a lover of an art
alloy	 	mixture as of metals; something added that lowers in value or purity; V: mix; make less pure; lower in value or quality; spoil; CF. unalloyed: not in mixture with other maetals; pure; complete; unqualified; Ex. unalloyed happiness
wizardry	 	sorcery; magic
abrasive	 	rubbing away; tending to grind down
swill	 	drink greedily
liability	 	drawback; handicap; debts; obligation; responsibility; condition of being liable; ADJ. liable: likely; responsible (for paying)
precipitant	 	something that causes a substance in a chemical solution to separate out in solid form; 침전제; OP. solvent
chastise	 	punish as by beating; criticize severely
effulgent	 	shining brightly; brilliant
lode	 	metal-bearing vein(long deposit of an ore)
impair	 	injure; hurt; damage
Elysium	 	place or condition of bliss
adamant	 	hard; inflexible
vicar	 	parish priest; representative
ken	 	range of knowledge; Ex. beyond one's ken
upshot	 	outcome; final result
corpuscle	 	red or white cell in the blood
plasticity	 	ability to be molded; ADJ. plastic: capable of being shaped or molded; Ex. plastic material such as clay
espouse	 	adopt; support (an idea or aim); marry; N. espousal
insubstantial	 	lacking substance; insignificant; frail; immaterial
allocate	 	assign; set apart for a particular purpose
sylvan	 	pertaining to the woods or the country
sluice	 	artificial channel for directing or controlling the flow of water (with a gate to regulate the flow)
wince	 	move back suddenly; shrink back; flinch; Ex. She winced as she touched the cold body.
parish	 	area in the care of a single priest and served by one main church
itinerary	 	plan of a trip; record of a trip
modulate	 	tone down in intensity; change the intensity or tone of; regulate; change from one musical key to another; Ex. modulate from E to G
regiment	 	military unit; V: subject to strict order; Ex. regimented society
mayhem	 	injury to body; crime of willfully maiming or crippling a person; violent disorder; Ex. mayhem in the zoo; CF. maim
wrangle	 	quarrel noisily; obtain through arguing; herd cattle; N.
declivity	 	downward slope
proclivity	 	inclination; natural tendency (esp. towards something bad)
proscribe	 	prohibit; ostracize; banish; outlaw
recumbent	 	reclining; lying down completely or in part
draconian	 	extremely severe; Ex. draconian punishment; CF. Draco: Athenian politician
dispassionate	 	calm; impartial; not influenced by personal feelings
withstand	 	stand up against; resist successfully
garner	 	gather; store up; amass
mediate	 	settle a dispute through the services of an outsider; act as an intermediary; produce by mediating; Ex. mediate a cease-fire
gibberish	 	nonsense; nonsensical or unintelligible talk or writing; babbling
resurge	 	rise again; flow to and fro; N. resurgence; ADJ. resurgent: (of ideas or beliefs) experiencing revival; surging again
refuse	 	anything discarded or rejected as worthless; trash
dogmatic	 	opinionated; holding stubbornly to one's opinion; arbitrary; doctrinal
dispense	 	distribute; prepare and give out (medicines); N. dispensation: dispensing; religious system; official exemption from an obligation or a rule
germinal	 	pertaining to a germ; creative; Ex. germinal idea
connotation	 	suggested or implied meaning of an expression; V. connote
equivocate	 	use equivocal language to deceive people; lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth; N. equivocation
d\'eb\^acle	 	sudden disastrous downfall or defeat; complete disaster
beneficiary	 	person entitled to benefits or proceeds of an insurance policy or will
grudging	 	unwilling; reluctant; stingy(giving reluctantly)
bromide	 	platitude; chemical compound used to calm excitement
jug	 	pitcher; container for holding liquids
apocalyptic	 	prophetic; pertaining to revelations especially of disaster; N. apocalypse
scourge	 	lash; whip (formerly used for punishment); source of severe punishment; V: whip; afflict
fulsome	 	disgustingly excessive; offensively flattering; Ex. fulsome praise/expressions of admire
guy	 	cable or chain attached to something that needs to be braced or steadied; CF. guide
jollity	 	gaiety; cheerfulness; ADJ. jolly: merry; gay
subsistence	 	existence; means of subsisting; means of support; livelihood; V. subsist: exist; maintain life (at a meager level)
shunt	 	move (a railway train) from one track to another; turn aside; divert; sidetrack; Ex. shunt traffic around an accident; N.
grapple	 	wrestle; come to grips with; take hold of and struggle with; Ex. grapple with the burglar
simplistic	 	oversimplified
tenacity	 	firmness; persistence
extrovert	 	person interested mostly in external objects and actions
h 32
pert	 	(esp. of a girl or young woman) impertinent; forward; trim; jaunty; Ex. pert young miss/hat
steadfast	 	steadily loyal; unswerving; steady
wispy	 	thin; slight; barely discernible
cartographer	 	map-maker
perpetrate	 	commit an offense; do (something wrong)
divulge	 	reveal
disingenuous	 	not naive; not candid; sophisticated; worldly wise; OP. ingenuous
recess	 	pause; temporary cessation; alcove; secret inner place; Ex. parliament in recess; V. CF. recessive
cosmic	 	pertaining to the universe; vast
gratify	 	please; satisfy; Ex. gratify a desire
slack	 	moving slowly; sluggish; inactive; (of a rope) loose; negligent; lax; Ex. slack season; Ex. slack in one's work; N. V.
truculence	 	aggressiveness; ferocity; ADJ. truculent: aggressive; pugnacious; fierce
healthy	 	possessing good health; healthful
mash	 	crush into mash; convert into mash; N: mixture of ground grain and nutrients fed to livestock and fowl
humanitarian	 	one devoted to the promotion of human welfare; CF. humanism
idyllic	 	charmingly carefree; simple and happy; Ex. idyllic scene
chase	 	ornament a metal surface by indenting; follow rapidly to catch
recline	 	lie down
militate	 	work against; Ex. militate against the chances of promotion; CF. serve as a soldier
astute	 	wise; shrewd; keen; seeing quickly something that is to one's advantage
cantankerous	 	ill-humored; irritable
berate	 	scold strongly
artery	 	blood-vessel; CF. vein
mantle	 	loose sleeveless outer garment; cloak; something that covers or envelops; the layer of the earth between the crust and the core
unassailable	 	not open to attack; impregnable; not subject to question
gnome	 	dwarf; underground spirit who guards treasure hoards
limpid	 	crystal clear
embed(imbed)	 	enclose; place in something; fix firmly in a surrounding mass
lachrymose	 	producing tears; tearful
creep	 	move with body close to the ground; move stealthily or slowly; N.
confidant(confidante)	 	trusted friend (to whom one tells one's secret)
fissure	 	crevice; crack
draw	 	choosing of a lot or card
sanction	 	approve; ratify; N: permission; penalty intended to enforce compliance
amend	 	correct; change ; generally for the better
irony	 	hidden sarcasm or satire; use of words that seem to mean the opposite of what they actually mean; use of words to convey the opposite of their literal meaning
galvanize	 	stimulate or shock by an electric current; stimulate by shock; shock into action; stir up; coat with rust-resistant zinc by using electricity
efface	 	rub out; remove the surface of
meander	 	wind or turn in its course; follow a winding or turning course; move aimlessly and idly
virtual	 	in essence; existing in essence though not in actual form; for practical purposes; Ex. virtual ruler/space
shimmer	 	shine with a flickering light; glimmer intermittently; Ex. The moonlight shimmered on the water; N.
visionary	 	produced by imagination; fanciful; mystical; showing foresight; N: one having foresight; one given to speculative impractical ideas
prosper	 	become successful (esp. financially); thrive; grow well; Ex. children prospering under his care
plait	 	braid; interwine; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; Ex. plaited hair; N: braided length as of hair o fabric; CF. pigtail, ponytail
mercurial	 	capricious; quick and changing; fickle; containing the element mercury; Ex. mercurial temper; CF. mood
historic	 	important in history; Ex. historic battle
imminent	 	impending; near at hand
wiggle	 	wriggle; move from side to side with irregular twisting motions
curtail	 	shorten; reduce
narcissist	 	conceited person; N. narcissism; CF. narcissus
pejorative	 	(of a word or phrase) suggesting that someone is of little value; negative in connotation; having a belittling effect; Ex. Many women now considers ``housewife'' a pejorative expression, because it patronized them.
ration	 	fixed portion; V: distribute as rations
levity	 	lack of seriousness or steadiness; frivolity; lightness of manner
quagmire	 	bog; marsh; soft, wet, boggy land; predicament; complex or dangerous situation from which it is difficult to free oneself
aplomb	 	poise; composure in difficult situations; assurance; self-confidence
adhere	 	stick fast; be a devotd follower; N. adhesion: adhering; devotion; loyality
doff	 	take off; OP. don
corrugated	 	wrinkled; ridged
esteem	 	respect; value; judge; N.
ambiguous	 	unclear or doubtful in meaning; having more than one possible interpretation
wrest	 	obtain by pulling violently; pull away; take by violence; Ex. wrest victory from their grasp
spate	 	sudden flood or rush; Ex. spate of accidents
inanimate	 	lifeless; not animate
armada	 	fleet of warships
polarize	 	split into opposite extremes or camps
rolling	 	(of land) rising and falling in long gentle slopes; happening continuously by stages; Ex. rolling devolution of power to local governments
practicable	 	feasible
amiable	 	agreeable; lovable; warmly friendly
roster	 	list (of names)
delta	 	flat plain of mud or sand between branches of a river
bereavement	 	state of being deprived of something valuable or beloved; state of being bereaved or bereft
loll	 	lounge about
posthumous	 	after death (as of child born after father's death or book published after author's death); coming or occurring after one's death; Ex. posthumous fame/novel
rapt	 	engrossed; absorbed; enchanted; Ex. rapt listener
gentry	 	people of standing(rank or position); people of good family or high social position; class of people just below nobility
idiom	 	expression whose meaning as a whole differs from the meanings of its individual words; distinctive style (of expression); Ex. idiom of the modern popular music; ADJ. idiomatic
recant	 	disclaim or disavow; retract a previous statement; openly confess error; Ex. recant one's faith/a statement
asylum	 	place of refuge or shelter; protection (religious or political)
virus	 	disease communicator
aberrant	 	abnormal or deviant
hubris	 	arrogance; excessive self-conceit
leniency	 	mildness; permissiveness; ADJ. lenient: not severe in judgment or punishment
imply	 	suggest a meaning not expressed; signify
syllogism	 	logical formula consisting of a major premise, a minor premise and a conclusion; deceptive or specious argument
propensity	 	natural inclination
opaque	 	dark; not transparent; N. opacity
fetish(fetich)	 	object believed to have spiritual powers; object of excessive attention or reverence; CF. fetishism
hummock	 	small hill; hillock
venial	 	(of a fault or sin) forgivable; trivial
effrontery	 	rudeness without any sense of shame; shameless boldness; presumptousness; nerve; cheek
subtlety	 	perceptiveness; ingenuity; delicacy; ADJ. subtle: delicate; so slight as to be difficult to detect; able to make fine distinctions; clever; Ex. subtle mind/differences in meaning
strew	 	spread randomly; sprinkle; scatter; Ex. flower girl strewing rose petals
canine	 	related to dogs; doglike
boisterous	 	violent; rough; noisy
vituperative	 	abusive; scolding; V. vituperate: berate; scold; rail against abusively
compress	 	force into less space; squeeze; contract; put into fewer words; N: thick mass of cloth pressed to part of the body to stop bleeding or swelling, reduce fever, etc.
paste	 	smooth viscous mixture as of flour(powder made by crushing grain) and water (used as an adhesive); V: cause to adhere by applying paste
h 33
spendthrift	 	someone who wastes money; CF. thrift: accumulated wealth
mannered	 	affected; not natural; Ex. mannered way of speech
marginal	 	of a margin; barely within a limit; Ex. marginal effect/writing ability
ultimatum	 	last demand; last warning; last statement of conditions that must be met; Ex. They have ignored our ultimatum.
lascivious	 	lustful
suspend	 	cause to stop for a period; interrupt; hold in abeyance; defer; hang from above; exclude for a period from a position; Ex. suspended state; Ex. suspend judgment; Ex. suspended from the team; N. suspension
turncoat	 	traitor
pique	 	irritation; resentment from wounded pride (eg. loss in a contest); V: provoke; arouse; annoy; cause to feel resentment; Ex. pique her curiosity
discrepancy	 	lack of consistency or agreement as between facts; difference; Ex. discrepancy between two descriptions
comprehensive	 	broad; including a lot or everything; thorough; inclusive
dilemma	 	situation that requires a choice between equally unfavorable options; problem; choice of two unsatisfactory alternatives
initiate	 	begin; originate; receive into a group; introduce to a new field or activity; Ex. initiate someone into the mysteries of a secret religion; N: one who has been initiated
osseous	 	made of bone; bony
distrait	 	absentminded; distracted
calligraphy	 	beautiful writing; excellent penmanship
halting	 	hesitant; faltering; not fluent; Ex. halting steps/voice; V. halt: proceed or act with uncertainty; falter; hesitate; waver; stop
overt	 	open to view; public; not secret; CF. covert
upright	 	(sitting or standing) straight up; honest; moral
pathos	 	tender sorrow; pity; quality in art or literature that produces these feelings; Ex. pathos that runs through the novel
probity	 	uprightness; honesty; incorruptibility
stratified	 	divided into classes; arranged into strata; V. stratify
embroil	 	throw into confusion; involve in strife, dispute, or quarrel; entangle; CF. imbroglio
exalt	 	raise in rank or dignity; praise highly; inspire; Ex. exalt the imagination; ADJ. exalted; N. exaltation
scruple	 	hesitate for ethical reasons; fret about; Ex. She did not scruple to read his diary; N: uneasy feeling arising from conscience; conscience
willful	 	wilful; intentional; headstrong
sepulcher	 	tomb; V: place in a sepulcher; ADJ. sepulchral
carping	 	petty criticism; fault-finding; fretful complaining; quibble
boor	 	rude, insensitive person
lucre	 	money; profit; Ex. filthy lucre
eerie	 	weird; causing fear because strange
archaeology	 	study of artifacts and relics of early mankind
gamut	 	entire range
plumber	 	one who installs and repairs pipes and plumbing(pipes)
address	 	direct a speech to; speak to; deal with or discuss; direct one's efforts or attention to; make with a destination; N: formal speech
stamp	 	step on heavily (so as to crush or extinguish); put an end to; imprint or impress with a mark, design, or seal; shape with a die; characterize; Ex. machine stamping out car bodies; Ex. newspaper stamping him as a liar; N. stamping; implement used to stamp; impression stamped; mark; Ex. Her remarks bear the stamp of truth.
inhibit	 	restrain; prohibit; retard or prevent; N. inhibition
celerity	 	speed; rapidity
detraction	 	slandering; aspersion; detracting; CF. detractor
gruesome	 	grisly; horrible
beneficent	 	kindly; doing good
knotty	 	intricate; difficult; tangled; CF. knot
prescience	 	ability to foretell the future; knowledge of actions before they occur; ADJ. prescient
vicissitude	 	change (esp. from good to bad); change of fortune; CF. the last emperor of China
debauch	 	corrupt morally; seduce from virtue; N. debauchery: wild behavior (with sex and alcohol)
renege	 	break a promise; deny; go back on; Ex. renege on the contract/paying off the debt
trivia	 	trifles; unimportant matters
inert	 	inactive; lacking power to move; unable to move or act; Ex. chemically inert; N. inertia: state of being inert; force which keeps a thing in the position or state
arduous	 	hard; strenuous; Ex. arduous work
browse	 	graze; feed on growing grass; skim or glance at casually
pertinacious	 	holding tenaciously to an action; stubborn; persistent
patrimony	 	property inherited from a father
flail	 	beat with or as if with a flail; move wildly; thresh grain by hand; strike or slap; toss about; N: threshing tool consisting of a stick swinging from the end of a long handle
environ	 	enclose; surround; N. environs: surrounding area (as of a city)
annihilate	 	destroy
provision	 	act of providing; something provided; preparatory measure; provisions: necessary supplies (esp. food); stipulation; condition in an agreement; Ex. According to the provisions of the agreement
balmy	 	soft and mild (of air); fragrant
remorse	 	deep regret for wrongdoing; guilt; self-reproach
fiend	 	evil spirit; devil
incoherent	 	unintelligible; muddled; unable to express one's thoughts in an orderly manner; illogical; lacking cohesion; not coherent
tyro	 	beginner; novice
roil	 	make liquids murky by stirring up sediment; disturb
idyll(idyl)	 	short poem idealizing rural life; simple happy period of life (in the country); scene from such a time; Ex. idyll of two young lovers
repository	 	storehouse
churlish	 	boorish; rude; N. churl: boor; yahoo
discriminate	 	distinguish; make distinctions on the basis of preference
repeal	 	revoke; annul
sallow	 	(of the skin) yellowish and unhealthy-looking; sickly in color; Ex. sallow complexion due to jaundice
havoc	 	widespread damage; disorder; chaos
chary	 	cautious; unwilling to take risks; sparing or restrained about giving; OP. bold
turbulence	 	state of violent agitation; ADJ. turbulent: violently agitated or disturbed
lithe	 	flexible; supple; CF. limber
pushy	 	disagreeably aggressive
luxuriant	 	abundant; growing healthily and in large amounts; excessively ornate; rich and splendid; fertile; Ex. luxuriant forests/prose; CF. luxurious, luxuriate
trample	 	step heavily with the feet; crush under the feet
contrive	 	invent or fabricate in a clever way (by improvisation); manage; Ex. contrive to attract his attention
instigate	 	start; urge; provoke; incite; Ex. instigate a search/quarrel
braggart	 	boaster; bragger
confine	 	shut in an enclosed space; restrict; keep within limits; N. confinement
motif	 	theme; recurrent thematic element in a musical or literary work; single or repeated pattern; figure
willowy	 	flexible; pliant; slender; CF. willow
apologist	 	one who writes in defense of a cause or institution; N. apologia
cloying	 	distasteful (because excessive); excessively sweet or sentimental; V. cloy: become unpleasant through too much sweetness or excess
seep	 	pass slowly through small openings; ooze; trickle; N. seepage
vicarious	 	experienced as if one were taking part in the experience of another; done by a deputy for other people; acting as a substitute; Ex. vicarious thrill at the movies; Ex. the vicarious sufferings of Christ
finicky	 	too particular; fussy; difficult to please; too concerned with unimportant details or quality; Ex. finicky about her food
antithesis	 	contrast; direct opposite of or to; ADJ. antithetic or antithetical
culpable	 	deserving blame; blameworthy
quiver	 	tremble; shake; N.
brawn	 	human muscle; muscular strength; sturdiness
chasten	 	discipline; punish in order to correct; CF. castigate
infer	 	deduce; conclude; N. inference
disburse	 	pay out (as from a fund); N. disbursement; CF. purse
untenable	 	(of a position, esp. in an argument) indefensible; not able to be maintained
demotic	 	of or pertaining to the people
spat	 	squabble; minor dispute; minor quarrel
persist	 	continue in existence; last; continue in a course of action in spite of opposition; Ex. persist in/with something; ADJ. persistent
cacophonous	 	discordant; inharmonious; N. cacophony: unpleasant mixture of loud sounds
h 34
filial	 	pertaining to or befitting a son or daughter; Ex. filial respect
arrhythmic	 	lacking rhythm or regularity; N. arrhythmia
plaster	 	paste that hardens to a smooth solid and is used for coating walls; V.
nebula	 	diffuse mass of interstellar dust or gas; galaxy
doddering	 	shaky; infirm from old age; V. dodder
depict	 	portray
juxtapose	 	place side by side; CF. next
filth	 	dirty matter; ADJ. filthy
devise	 	think up; invent; plan; bequeath; N: bequest
brackish	 	somewhat saline
pontifical	 	pertaining to a bishop or pope; pompous or pretentious; CF. pontiff: pope; bishop
reverent	 	respectful; worshipful; V. revere: regard with reverence; N. reverence: profound respect
shuffle	 	mix together; jumble; move (something) from one place to another; slide (the feet) along the ground while walking; Ex. shuffle papers from one pile to another; N.
dirge	 	funeral song; slow mournful piece of music (sung over a dead person)
Machiavellian	 	crafty; double-dealing; of the political doctrine of Machiavelli, which holds that craft and deceit are justified in pursuing political power
belittle	 	disparage; depreciate
patina	 	green crust on old bronze works or copper; tone slowly taken by varnished painting
mischance	 	ill luck
effigy	 	dummy; likeness of a person made of wood, paper, or stone; Ex. burn an effigy of the President
nutrient	 	nourishing substance; ADJ: providing nourishment
bacchanal	 	noisy party with a lot of drinking
virtuoso	 	highly skilled artist (esp. in music); Ex. piano virtuoso
eccentricity	 	oddity; idiosyncrasy
benign	 	kindly; favorable; not malignant (disease); Ex. benign tumor
wheedle	 	deceive, persuade, or obtain by flattery; cajole; coax; Ex. wheedle a promise out of her
intrinsic	 	essential; inherent; built-in
placate	 	pacify; bring peace to; conciliate; appease
menagerie	 	collection of wild animals on exhibition; zoo
pulsate	 	throb; beat regularly; vibrate regularly
sere	 	sear; parched; dry
throb	 	(of a heart or machine) beat rapidly or violently; N. Ex. hearthrob: heartbeat; sweetheart
halfhearted	 	exhibiting little interest or enthusiasm
patriarch	 	father and ruler of a family or tribe
usage	 	act or manner of using; accepted practice; way in which words are actually used
subaltern	 	subordinate
hut	 	crude dwelling; shack
infest	 	inhabit in numbers large enough to be harmful; Ex. Mice infested the house; Ex. shark-infested waters
inevitable	 	unavoidable
parity	 	equality; close resemblance; CF. disparate
incontrovertible	 	indisputable; impossible to dispute; not open to question; unquestionable
tether	 	tie (an animal) with a rope or tether; N: rope or chain to which an animal is tied; limit of one's endurance; Ex. the end of one's tether
ebullient	 	showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm; boiling; N. ebullience; N. ebullition: state of boiling
insidious	 	treacherous; stealthy; sly; working or spreading harmfully in a stealthy manner; Ex. insidious spreading of dry rot
nausea	 	feeling of sickness and desire to vomit; disgust; CF. seasickness
alienate	 	make unfriendly or hostile; estrange; separate; change the ownership of
esoteric	 	hard to understand; known only to the chosen few, esp. initiates; N. esoterica
contortions	 	twistings; distortions; V. contort: twist violently out of shape; CF. contortionist
corpulent	 	very fat; N. corpulence
clamor	 	loud continous noise; continuous demand or complaint made by a large number of people; V: make a clamor; express (a demand) continually and loudly; ADJ. clamorous
amity	 	friendship; peaceful relationship as between nations
sensuous	 	giving pleasure to the senses; pertaining to the physical senses; operating through the senses; sensuous feeling of soft velvet on the skin
continence	 	self-restraint; sexual chastity; sexual abstinence; voluntary control over bladder and bowel functions; ADJ. continent
anoint	 	consecrate; put oil on (in a religious ceremony)
dermatologist	 	one who studies the skin and its diseases
rational	 	(of a person) having reason; (of ideas) based on reason; logical
fete(f\^ete)	 	honor at a festival; celebrate or honor with a feast; N. (outdoor) festival or feast; CF. feast
vortex	 	whirlwind; whirlpool; center of turbulence; predicament into which one is inexorably plunged
mason	 	one who builds or works with stone or brick; N. masonry: work of a mason; stonework or brickwork
cadaver	 	corpse; dead human body
exotic	 	not native; from another part of the world; strange; intriguingly unusual; Ex. exotic flower/dress
exhale	 	breathe out; OP. inhale
reverberate	 	echo repeatedly; resound; Ex. The thunder reverberated across the valley.
rationale	 	fundamental reason or principle (on which a system or principle is based); fundamental reason or justification; grounds for an action
humus	 	substance or rich soil formed by decaying vegetable matter; CF. soil
defer	 	give in respectfully; submit; delay till later; exempt temporarily; N. deferment; CF. show respect, comply with, courteous
carnivorous	 	meat-eating; N. carnivore; CF. herbivore
venerate	 	revere; treat with great respect
carefree	 	free from worries; having no problems
subsidiary	 	serving to assist; subordinate; secondary; of a subsidy; N.
disaffected	 	disloyal; lacking loyality; V. disaffect: cause to lose affection or loyalty
errant	 	wandering (esp. in search of adventure); straying from proper moral standards; Ex. knight-errant
rake	 	angle of a slope; V: slant from the perpendicular
assay	 	analyze (to discover what materials are present); evaluate (soil or ore)
prompt	 	cause; urge; provoke; provide a cue (for an actor); ADJ: done without delay; done at the right time; punctual; on time; N: reminder or cue
enclave	 	territory enclosed within an alien land
bedraggle	 	wet thoroughly; ADJ. bedraggled: draggled
holocaust	 	destruction by fire; CF. burnt whole; CF. Holocaust
mawkish	 	mushy(sentimental) and gushy; icky-sticky sentimental; excessively and objectionably sentimental
liaison	 	contact that keeps parties in communication; communication between groups; one that maintains communication; go-between; secret love affair; V. liaise: keep a connection
matriculate	 	enroll (in college or graduate school); CF. matrix
tutelage	 	guardianship; training; function of a tutor; instruction
adjutant	 	staff officer assisting the commander; assistant
callow	 	youthful; immature; inexperienced
libido	 	psychic and emotional energy or urges behind human activity; sexual desire
persevere	 	continue steadily in spite of difficulties
galaxy	 	large isolated system of stars, such as the Milky Way; collection of brilliant personalities
wholesome	 	conducive to mental or physical health; healthful
heckler	 	person who verbally harasses others; V. heckle: verbally harass as with gibes (by interrupting a speaker or speech)
substantive	 	substantial; essential; pertaining to the substance; substantial; considerable; Ex. substantive issues
frenzied	 	madly excited; N. frenzy: violent wild excitement
septic	 	of or causing sepsis; putrid; producing putrefaction; N. sepsis: poisoning of part of the body (producing pus)
mime	 	pantomime(act without dialogue); mimicry; mimer; V: mimic; pantomime
misogamy	 	hatred of marriage
blunder	 	error; stupid mistake
dais	 	raised platform for speakers or other important people
privy	 	secret; hidden; not public; made a participant in something secret; Ex. privy chamber government; Ex. be privy to a discussion; CF. private
docket	 	program as for trial; book where such entries are made; list of things to be done; agenda; label fixed to a package listing contents or directions; V: describe in a docket
h 35
stifle	 	suppress; extinguish; inhibit; smother or suffocate
patronize	 	support; act superior toward; treat in a condescending manner; be a customer of; N. patron: one that supports; regular customer; N. patronage; CF. boycott
colloquial	 	pertaining to conversational or common speech; informal; N. colloquialism: colloquial expression
fester	 	rankle; produce irritation or resentment; (of a cut or wound) generate pus or rot; Ex. His insult festered in my mind for days.
skirmish	 	minor fight; minor battle in war; V.
avow	 	declare openly; N. avowal
emboss	 	produce a design in raised relief; decorate with a raised design
latch	 	fastening or lock consisting of a movable bar that fits into a notch; V: close with a latch
interim	 	meantime; Ex. in the interim; ADJ. taking place during an interim; Ex. interim paper
fanfare	 	call by bugles or trumpets; showy display; spectacular public display
craven	 	cowardly
runic	 	mysterious; set down in an ancient alphabet; N. rune: one of the letters of an alphabet used by ancient Germanic peoples (cut on stone or wood); magic charm
arid	 	(of land) dry; barren; unproductive
pose	 	assume a particular posture; put forward; present; affect a particular attitude (to impress others); Ex. pose a threat; N.
listless	 	lacking in spirit or energy; languid
tautological	 	needlessly repetitious; Ex. ``It was visible to the eye''; N. tautology: needless repetition of the same sense; statement that is always true
plumb	 	exactly vertical; N: weight on the end of a line; V: examine very carefully or critically in order to understand; measure depth (by sounding); Ex. plumb the depth of
prune	 	cut away; trim
amphitheater	 	oval building with tiers of seats; CF. arena
fulcrum	 	support on which a lever rests or pivots
befuddle	 	confuse thoroughly
heterodox	 	(of beliefs) against accepted opinion; unorthodox; unconventional
germ	 	earliest form of an organism; seed or bud; something that may develop into something larger or more important; microbe
flamboyant	 	ornate; highly elaborate; richly colored; ostentatious; showy; CF. flame
magnanimity	 	generosity; ADJ. magnanimous: generous
atypical	 	not normal; not typical
enterprise	 	willingness to take new ventures; initiative; business organization; plan (that is difficult or daring); Ex. their latest enterprise to sail round the world in a small boat
incidence	 	rate of occurrence; particular occurrence; Ex. high incidence of infant mortality
accord	 	agreement
crestfallen	 	dejected; dispirited
imbue	 	saturate(soak thoroughly); fill; Ex. imbue someone with feelings
fleet	 	fast; rapid; N. ADJ. fleeting: passing quickly; ephemeral
pertinent	 	suitable; to the point; relevant
surpass	 	exceed
demographic	 	related to population balance; N. demography: statistical study of human population
ragamuffin	 	dirty child in torn clothes; person wearing tattered clothes
afterlife	 	life after death; later part of one's life
parameter	 	limit; independent variable; Ex. parameters of the problem; Ex. within the parameters of the budget
confidential	 	spoken or written in secret; trusted with private matters; Ex. confidential secretary
quarantine	 	isolation of a person, place, or ship to prevent spread of infection; V: isolate in quarantine
passive	 	not active; acted upon; receiving an action without acting in return; accepting without resistance
mammoth	 	gigantic; enormous
somnolent	 	half asleep; drowsy; N. somnolence
sage	 	person celebrated for wisdom; wise person; ADJ: wise
sidetrack	 	switch (a railroad car) to a siding; divert from a main issue; N. CF. siding: short section of railroad track connected by switches with a main track
limbo	 	region near heaven or hell where certain souls are kept; prison (slang); Ex. Purgatory and Limbo
gregarious	 	sociable; (of an animal) tending to form a group
slick	 	make smooth or glossy; N: smooth surface; Ex. oil slick; ADJ: smooth; glossy; deftly executed; adroit; glib
prerogative	 	privilege; unquestionable right; CF. ask before
paragon	 	model of perfection; Ex. paragon of virtue
gadfly	 	animal-biting fly; irritating person
illusion	 	misleading vision or visual image; false idea or belief; CF. delusion
artifacts	 	object made by human beings, either hand-made or mass-produced
mirth	 	merriment; laughter
nomadic	 	wandering; N. nomad: tribe who migrates from place to place
summation	 	act of finding the total; summing-up; summary (esp. one given by the judge at the end of a trial)
knit	 	contract into wrinkles; grow together; join together closely; make (a fabric or garment) by interwining yarn or thread; Ex. knit the brow; Ex. The bones should knit together in a few weeks.
gruel	 	thin liquid porridge
alias	 	an assumed name esp. by a criminal (usually to mislead people); ADV. alias
forge	 	counterfeit; reproduce fraudulently; form by heating in a forge and hammering into shape; move with a sudden increase of speed or power; Ex. forged ahead in the last two years; N: furnace where metals are heated
crux	 	essential or main point; Ex. the crux of the problem; ADJ. crucial: of deciding importance
pied	 	piebald; variegated(many-colored); multicolored
hysteria	 	excessive or uncontrollable excitement; N. hysteric: person suffering from hysteria; CF. hysterics: attack of hysteria
condescend	 	(derog.) bestow courtesies with a superior air; descend to the level of one considered inferior
surveillance	 	close observation of a person (esp. one under suspicion); watching; guarding
balk	 	stop short, as if faced with an obstacle, and refuse to continue; foil; stop or get in the way of; frustrate
complement	 	complete; consummate; make perfect; N.
indenture	 	bind as servant or apprentice to master; bind by indenture; N: contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified time (as between an apprentice and his master)
swagger	 	walk or behave with an over-confident manner
ornate	 	excessively or elaborately decorated
exertion	 	effort; expenditure of much physical work; V. exert oneself: make a great effort
ethnology	 	study of humankind; study of the different races of human beings; CF. anthropology
circumspect	 	prudent; cautious; acting after careful thought
debut	 	d\'ebut; first public appearance; formal presentation of a young woman to society
taxonomist	 	specialist in classifying (animals, etc.); CF. taxonomy: science of classification
insipid	 	lacking in flavor; lacking interest; dull; Ex. insipid food/character
contentious	 	quarrelsome; controversial; likely to cause arguments
pensive	 	dreamily or deeply thoughtful; sadly thoughtful; thoughtful with a hint of sadness; contemplative; CF. think over
d\'ebris	 	rubble; wreckage; scattered remains of something broken or destroyed
presume	 	take for granted; assume; act overconfidently; take liberties; presume on/upon: take unfair advantage of (someone's kindness or connection); N. presumption
pivotal	 	of a pivot; central; critical; crucial
decant	 	pour off gently (wine or liquid)
marked	 	noticeable; targeted for vengeance or attack; Ex. marked improvement/man
renounce	 	abandon; give up (by formal announcement); disown; repudiate; Ex. renounce one's claim to the property/one's religion; N. renunciation
boon	 	blessing; benefit; something very helpful
embargo	 	ban on commerce or other activity
purported	 	alleged; claimed; reputed or rumored; Ex. purported Satanists
prot\'eg\'e	 	person receiving protection and support from a patron
jibe	 	agree; be in harmony with; gibe
fatalism	 	belief that events are determined by forces or fates beyond one's control; ADJ. fatalistic; CF. fatal: causing death
peroration	 	conclusion of an oration; perorating; V. perorate: conclude a speech; speak at great length
explicate	 	explain in detail; interpret; clarify; CF. explicable
opulence	 	extreme wealth; luxuriousness; abundance; ADJ. opulent: possessing great wealth; abundant
commiserate	 	feel or express pity or sympathy for
denotation	 	meaning; distinguishing by name; V. denote: indicate; refer to directly; mean; CF. connotation
scowl	 	frown angrily; N: angry frown
seclusion	 	isolation; solitude; V. seclude: set apart from others; isolate
h 36
sprout	 	begin to grow; give off shoots or buds; N: new growth on a plant; shoot
insurmountable	 	overwhelming; unbeatable; insuperable
waif	 	homeless child or animal; Ex. waifs and strays
irresolute	 	uncertain how to act; weak; lacking in resolution; indecisive; N. irresolution
furtive	 	stealthy; quiet and secret (trying to escape notice); sneaky; Ex. furtive glance
yield	 	amount produced; crop; income on investment; profit obtained from an investment; V: produce; give in; surrender
precinct	 	division of a city for election or police purposes; precincts: space that surrounds a building; Ex. precincts of the college
flora	 	plants of a region or era
garnish	 	decorate; add a garnish to; decorate (food or drink) with small items such as lemon slices; N.
congenital	 	existing at birth
uniformity	 	sameness; monotony; ADJ. uniform: the same all over
dereliction	 	neglect of duty; abandonment
whinny	 	neigh like a horse; CF. neigh: make the sound which horses make
junket	 	trip especially one taken for pleasure by an official at public expense
inverse	 	opposite
thrive	 	prosper; flourish
floe	 	flat mass of floating ice
enunciate	 	announce; proclaim; utter or speak, especially distinctly; pronounce clearly; articulate; Ex. This theory was first enunciated by him.
therapeutic	 	curative; N. therapy
nocturnal	 	done or active at night; Ex. nocturnal animals/raids; CF. nocturne
luscious	 	pleasing to taste or smell; delicious
hew	 	cut to pieces with ax or sword; chop; N.
repulse	 	reject with rudeness or coldness (an offer or friendship); drive back (an enemy attack); CF. repulse $\neq$ cause repulsion
deranged	 	insane
anachronism	 	an error involving time in a story; something or someone misplaced in time; ADJ. anachronistic
debar	 	bar; forbid; exclude; Ex. debarred from jury services
trickster	 	person who cheats people
maleficient	 	doing evil; N. maleficience
tenant	 	one that pays rent to use property owned by another
integrity	 	honesty; uprightness; wholeness; state of being whole and undivided; completeness
doctrinaire	 	unable to compromise about points of doctrine; dogmatic; unyielding; marked by inflexible attachment to a doctrine without regard to its practical difficulties
hermitage	 	home of a hermit
gush	 	(of liquid) pour out in large quantities from a hole; make an excessive display of feeling (without true feeling); Ex. Blood gushed from the wound.
leeway	 	room to move; margin; latitude; Ex. leeway for the deadline
subpoena	 	writ(written command issued by a court) summoning a witness to appear in court; V: summon with a subpoena
compilation	 	listing of information in tabular or book form; compiling
indubitable	 	unable to be doubted; which cannot be doubted; unquestionable
stoke	 	stir up a fire or furnace; feed plentifully
predispose	 	give an inclination toward (in advance); make susceptible to; Ex. predispose people to certain cancer; N. predisposition
ludicrous	 	laughable; ridiculous; trifling
impassable	 	not able to be traveled or crossed
combustible	 	easily burned; N. CF. combustion
court	 	attempt to gain; seek; woo; risk; behave so as to invite; attempt to gain the favor of by attention; Ex. court disaster
tyranny	 	oppression; cruel government; ADJ. tyrannical: of a tyrant or tyranny; despotic; V. tyrannize: treat tyrannically; oppress
quiver	 	case for arrows
consanguinity	 	kinship; relationship by birth
potable	 	suitable for drinking; drinkable
crone	 	hag; ugly old woman
gargantuan	 	huge; enormous; gigantic; CF. the hero of Gargantua and Pantagruel
seasoned	 	experienced
scuttle	 	sink (a ship) by cutting holes in the hull; scrap; discard; N: small hatch in a ship's deck or hull
peregrination	 	journey; V. peregrinate
caption	 	title; chapter heading; text under illustration
outstrip	 	outrun; surpass; outdo
stalwart	 	physically strong; brawny; steadfast; strong in mind or determination; Ex. stalwart supporter; N: stalwart follower
engaging	 	charming; attractive
iconoclastic	 	attacking cherished traditions; N. iconoclast: one who attacks traditional ideas; one who destroys sacred images
parched	 	extremely dry; very thirsty; V. parch: make or become extremely dry (by exposure to heat)
discernible	 	distinguishable; perceivable; Ex. discernible improvement
decorous	 	proper (in behavior, conduct, or appearance)
quail	 	cower; shrink back in fear; lose heart
brazen	 	insolent; without shame; bold; Ex. brazen lie; V: face with bold self-assurance or with unshamed confidence
comprehend	  include; understand
opalescent	 	iridescent; lustrous; like an opal; N. opalescence
dilute	 	make (a liquid) less concentrated; reduce in strength; Ex. dilute the influence of the president
spawn	 	lay eggs (in large numbers); produce offspring (in large numbers); N: eggs of aquatic animals
mentor	 	counselor; teacher
leash	 	restraining rope fastened to the collar of an animal (to control it); Ex. a dog on a leash
drab	 	dull; lacking color; cheerless ; Ex. drab coat/life
matrix	 	point of origin; array of numbers or algebraic symbols; mold or die; Ex. the matrix of Western civilization
fervid	 	ardent; zealous; hot
pestilential(pestilent)	 	causing plague; tending to cause death; baneful; N. pestilence: fatal epidemic disease (esp. bubonic plague)
feign	 	pretend
podium	 	pedestal; raised platform
horoscope	 	diagram of the positions of stars at a given moment (eg. of a person's birth) used by astrologers
scion	 	detached plant shoot used in grafting; descendant
vision	 	eyesight; foresight; mental image produced by the imagination; experience of seeing the supernatural
restive	 	impatiently restless (induced by external coercion or restriction); restlessly impatient; obstinately resisting control; Ex. restive horses because of wolves; CF. not a general synonym for `restless'
bolt	 	door bar; fastening pin or screw; length of fabric; large roll of cloth; V: dash or dart off; fasten (a	door); gobble down
screech	 	unpleasant high sharp sound; shriek; V.
conveyance	 	vehicle; transfer; act of conveying; Ex. public conveyance
ecclesiastic	 	ecclesiastical; pertaining to the church; N: minister; priest; cleric; clergyman
tepid	 	lukewarm; slightly warm; 미지근한; half-hearted; not eager; Ex. tepid reaction to the new film; Ex. tepid supporter
enthrall	 	capture; enslave; captivate; hold the complete attention of (as if magic); hold spellbound
fathomless	 	too deep to be measured or understood; unfathomable
vivacious	 	lively or animated; sprightly
disperse	 	scatter; Ex. disperse the cloud/crowd
penchant	 	strong inclination; strong liking (esp. for something that is disapproved of by other people); Ex. penchant for fast cars
brindled	 	tawny or grayish with streaks or spots (of animals)
compensatory	 	making up for; repaying
emissary	 	agent (sent on a mission to represent another); messenger
ensue	 	follow (as a result)
outwit	 	outsmart; defeat by behaving more cleverly
brisk	 	quick and active; marked by liveliness and vigor
gild	 	cover with a thin layer of gold
assiduous	 	diligent
regatta	 	boat or yacht race
h 37
remonstrate	 	protest; objection; V. remonstrate: say in protest
rent	 	tear made by rending; rip; split
dissension	 	disagreement of opinions causing strife within a group
velocity	 	speed
scaffold	 	temporary platform for workers (to work at heights above the ground); bracing framework; platform for execution
beleaguer	 	besiege or attack (with an army); harass; beset
browbeat	 	bully; intimidate
marshal	 	put in order; guide ceremoniously to the correct place; Ex. marshal the children into the museum; N: military officer; official
vulpine	 	like a fox; crafty
shirk	 	avoid (responsibility, work, etc.); malinger
fermentation	 	chemical reaction that splits complex organic compounds; unrest; agitation
deride	 	ridicule; treat with contempt; make fun of; OP. respect
plume	  feather, esp. large or showy one; something that rises into the air (like the shape of a feather); Ex. plume of smoke: 버섯 구름
penumbra	 	partial shadow (in an eclipse); CF. almost shadow
provender	 	dry food for livestock; fodder
emulate	 	imitate; rival; try to equal or excel (through imitation)
tawdry	 	cheap and gaudy; Ex. tawdry jewelry
simper	 	smirk; smile in a silly way; smile affectedly
omnipotent	 	all-powerful; having unlimited power
repose	 	resting; state of being at rest; calmness; V: lie at rest; relax; put or place; Ex. repose our hopes in a single man
surly	 	bad-tempered; rude; cross
perigee	 	point of moon's orbit when it is nearest the earth; CF. apogee
elated	 	filled with excited joy and pride; overjoyed; in high spirits; joyful and proud; Ex. elated crowd; V. elate; N. elation
sect	 	separate religious body; faction; group of people with common beliefs within a larger group
stolid	 	dull; impassive; showing little emotion when strong feelings are expected
desolate	 	(of a place) deserted; unpopulated; (of a person) lonely; forlorn; joyless
morgue	 	mortuary; place where bodies are kept before burial or cremation
burnish	 	make shiny by rubbing; polish
wisp	 	small bunch (of hair); faint streak (of smoke)
belated	 	delayed
perpetual	 	everlasting
calumny	 	malicious misrepresentation; slander
obtrude	 	push (oneself or one's ideas) forward or intrude; impose (oneself or one's ideas) on others; butt in; stick out or extrude; thrust out; Ex. obtrude A on B; ADJ. obtrusive; N. obtrusion; CF. unobtrusive
compact	 	agreement; contract; ADJ: tightly packed; firm; brief; concise; Ex. compact statement
meretricious	 	flashy; tawdry; attractive on the surface but of no real value; Ex. metericious argument/jewel; CF. prostitute
polygamist	 	one who has more than one spouse at a time; CF. bigamy; CF. polyandry
painstaking	 	taking pains; showing hard work; taking great care; very careful and through
sinewy	 	(of meat) tough; strong and firm; muscular; N. sinew: tendon; strong cord connecting a muscle to a bone
stump	 	base of a tree trunk left after the rest has been cut down; V: walk in a heavy manner; baffle; puzzle
bitter	  having a sharp biting taste; 쓴; causing sharp pain to the body or mind; filled with resentment, disappointment, or other unpleasant feelings; Ex. bitter wind/sorrow/tears
promontory	 	headland
cull	 	pick out from others (to kill the weakest members); reject; select; collect (information); N.
induce	 	persuade; lead to do something; bring about; N. inducement
petty	 	trivial; unimportant; very small; small-minded; petty-minded
edify	 	instruct; correct morally
teetotalism	 	practice of abstaining totally from alcoholic drinks; N. teetotaler;; ADJ. teetotal; CF. T + total
extrude	 	force or push out; thrust out; shape (plastic or metal) by forcing through a die
potpourri	 	heterogeneous mixture; medley; mixture of dried flower petals a pot (to give a pleasant smell to a room)
militant	 	combative; bellicose; N.
sporadic	 	occurring irregularly; intermittent
chronic	 	long established as a disease
crescendo	 	increase in the volume or intensity as in a musical passage; climax; CF. crescent
adjourn	  suspend until a later time; move from one place to another
gingerly	 	very carefully; ADJ.
meter	 	arrangement of words in the form of poetry (by accentual rhythm)
pedestrian	 	ordinary; dull; unimaginative(lacking in imagination); going on foot; Ex. pedestrian prose; N.
irretrievable	 	impossible to recover or regain; CF. retrieve
disputatious	 	argumentative; fond of argument
woe	 	great sorrow; deep inconsolable grief; affliction; suffering; Ex. financial woes
incubus	 	burden; very worriying problem; mental care; nightmare; male devil; CF. succubus
facetious	 	joking (often inappropriately); unserious; humorous
cryptic	 	mysterious; hidden; secret
totter	 	shake or move unsteadily; sway as if about to fall
drama	 	prose or verse composition to be performed by actors; play; exciting and unusual situation
obsequious	 	slavishly attentive; servile; full of servile compliance; sycophantic
mortify	 	humiliate by embarassing excessively; shame; punish the flesh; discipline (one's body) by self-denial; Ex. mortified by her blunder; Ex. mortify the flesh; CF. cause to die
anthology	 	book of literary selections by various authors; CF. omnibus
intrigue	 	make secret plans; plot; arouse the curiosity of; N: secret scheme; plot; secret love affair
nourish	 	provide with food necessary for life and growth
whine	 	complain (in a sad voice); make a high sad sound (as in pain or supplication)
cloister	 	monastery or convent
invidious	 	designed to create ill will or envy; tending to rouse ill will or envy; Ex. invidious comparison
turpitude	 	depravity; baseness; Ex. moral turpitude
smolder	 	smoulder; burn slowly without flame; be liable to break out at any moment; exist in a suppressed state; Ex. smoldering anger
emasculate	 	weaken; castrate
revelry	 	boisterous merrymaking; V. revel: engage boisterous festivities; enjoy greatly; N: boisterous festivity or celebration
kismet	 	fate; destiny; Ex. Kismet is the Arabic word for fate.
impeach	 	charge (a public official) with crime in office; raise doubts about; indict; Ex. impeach a witness's credibility
conjure	 	cause to appear by magic; summon (a devil or a spirit) by magical power; practice magic (esp. by very quick movement of the hands); evoke; conjure up: bring into the mind; Ex. The magician conjured a rabbit out of his hat.
uncouth	 	boorish; clumsy in speech or behavior; outlandish
forswear	 	renounce under oath; abandon; make a solemn promise to give up; CF. abjure
canker	 	any ulcerous sore; ulcer; any evil; CF. cancer
sluggard	 	lazy person
inarticulate	 	speechless; producing indistinct speech; not articulate; not expressing oneself clearly
clown	 	act stupidly; play the fool; N.
dross	 	waste matter; worthless impurities
intangible	 	not able to be perceived by touch; vague
fraudulent	 	cheating; deceitful; Ex. fraudulent means; N. fraud: deception; swindle
scintilla	 	trace; minute amount; shred; least bit; Ex. There is not a scintilla of truth; CF. spark
contingent	 	dependent on something uncertain or in the future; conditional; happening by chance; accidental; N: a group of soldiers, ships to a larger force; CF. contingency: future event that may or may not occur; possibility; Ex. prepare for every contingency
linguistic	 	pertaining to language
exchequer	 	treasury; Ex. Chancellor of the exchequer
chip	 	lose a small piece from the surface or edge; N: small piece broken off something; CF. French fry; Potato chip/crisp
variegate	 	change the appearance of (by marking with different colors)
nepotism	 	favoritism (to a relative); CF. nephew
finale	 	conclusion; concluding part
countenance	 	approve; support; tolerate; Ex. countenance his rude behavior; N: face; appearance
h 38
ascetic	 	practicing self-denial; avoiding physical pleasures and comforts; austere; Ex. ascetic life of Buddhist monks; N. asceticism
tenancy	 	possession of land or building by rent; period of a tenant's occupancy
vain	 	full of self-admiration; conceited; without result; unsuccessful; N. vanity
evenhanded	 	impartial; fair
cynosure	 	object of general attention; person or thing that is a center of attention; CF. Ursa Minor
rummage	 	ransack; thoroughly search
jocund	 	merry
uproarious	 	marked by commotion or uproar; very noisy (esp. with laughter); hilarious; causing loud laughter; extremely funny
metropolis	 	large city
repertoire	 	list of works of music, drama, etc., a performer is prepared to present; CF. repertory
pluck	 	courage; V: pull off or out; pull out the hair or feathers of; ADJ. plucky: courageous; brave
ensconce	 	settle comfortably; place comfortably (in a secure place)
auroral	 	pertaining to the aurora borealis; CF. aurora australis
vitriolic	 	causing sharp pain to the mind; caustic; corrosive; sarcastic; of vitriol; N. vitriol: sulphuric acid (which burns flesh deeply); bitterly abusive expression; caustic expression; CF. glass
draft	 	first rough form; conscription; draught; V: make a draft of; conscript
peremptory	 	demanding and leaving no choice; imperative; Ex. peremptory decree/knock 
bate	 	let down; lessen the force of; moderate; restrain; Ex. with bated breath; CF. abate
disfigure	 	mar the appearance of; spoil
mode	 	prevailing style; current fashion; manner; way of doing something; Ex. in the latest mode; Ex. simple mode of life
resolve	 	determination; resolution; firmness of purpose
faze	 	disconcert; dismay; embarrass
tryst	 	meeting arranged by lovers; arrangement between lovers to meet
munificent	 	very generous in giving; Ex. munificent benefactor; N. munificience
viper	 	poisonous snake
compile	 	assemble; gather; accumulate; make (a report or a book) from facts and information found in various places; Ex. compile a dictionary
aptitude	 	fitness; talent
paean	 	song of praise or joy; Ex. paeans celebrating the victory
spectrum	 	colored band produced when a beam of light passes through a prism; broad and continuous range; Ex. whole spectrum of modern thoughts
automaton	 	mechanism that imitates actions of humans; machine that works by itself
vent	 	release or discharge through a vent; express (esp. unfairly); utter; Ex. He vented his wrath on his family.
gambit	 	opening in chess in which a piece is sacrificed; action made to produce a future advantage
mute	 	silent; without speech; not pronounced; unable to speak; N: one who is incapable of speech; V: soften the sound, color, shade of
mortar	 	vessel in which substances are crushed with a pestle
formidable	 	menacing; arousing fear; threatening; difficult to defeat; Ex. formidable foe/question
censor	 	(in ancient Rome) overseer of morals (also taking the census); person who eliminates inappropriate matter; V.
recipient	 	receiver
gloat	 	express evil satisfaction; look at or think about with evil satisfaction; view malevolently; Ex. The thief gloated over the stolen jewels.
delineate	 	portray; depict; sketch; describe; N. delineation
advocate	 	speak in favor of; support (an idea or plan); urge; plead for
fancier	 	breeder or dealer of animals; one who has a special interest, as for raising  specific plant or animal
rejoinder	 	reply; retort; comeback; V. rejoin: say in reply
equivocal	 	(of words or statements) ambiguous; intentionally misleading; (of behavior) questionable; OP. unequivocal
context	 	writings preceding and following the passage quoted; circumstance in which an event occurs
ominous	 	threatening; of an evil omen
purchase	 	secure grasp or hold; firm grasp or footing
slur	 	pronounce indistinctly; speak indistinctly; mumble
impartial	 	not biased; fair; N. impartiality
peccadillo	 	slight offense or fault; CF. sin
abridge	 	condense or shorten
incubate	 	hatch; warm (eggs) with the body to promote hatching; maintain at optimal environment conditions for development; be holding in one's body an infection which is going to develop into a disease; N. incubation; CF. incubation:disease
debonair	 	(of men) friendly, charming, and fashionably dressed; aiming to please; CF. of good disposition
lope	 	gallop slowly
quarry	 	dig into (to get stone); N: mine; 채석장
genuflect	 	bend the knee as in worship
ploy	 	strategem to gain an advantage; tactic; Ex. management ploy
facsimile	 	copy
reputed	 	supposed; Ex. reputed father of the child; V. repute: consider; N. repute: reputation; esteem
gory	 	bloody; N. gore: blood (from a wound)
accoutre	 	equip; N. accoutrement
drone	 	idle person who lives on other people's work; male bee
azure	 	sky blue
repercussion	 	rebound; reaction; reverberation; Ex. serious repercussion
intoxicate	 	make drunk; stimulate or excite; Ex. intoxicated by all the money he might win
attribute	 	essential quality; V: ascribe; explain
recalcitrant	 	disobedient or resisting authority even after being punished; obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority; unruly; Ex. recalcitrant child
nebulous	 	vague; hazy; cloudy; of a nebula; Ex. nebulous proposal
remiss	 	negligent; careless about a duty
lunatic	 	insane; Ex. lunatic asylum
tinge	 	give a slight degree of a color or quality to; N: slight degree of a color or quality; Ex. tinged with grey/jealousy
rubric	 	title or heading (in red print); directions for religious ceremony; protocol
taut	 	tight; strained; tense; ready; OP. slack
plummet	 	fall sharply; fall straight down; Ex. Stock prices plummeted.
kindle	 	start a fire; ignite; inspire; arouse
volition	 	act of using one's will; act of making a conscious choice; Ex. She selected this dress of her own volition.
capricious	 	unpredictable; fickle
delve	 	dig; search deeply; investigate
harbor	 	give protection (by giving food and shelter); provide a refuge for; hide; keep in mind (thoughts or feelings); Ex. harbor a grudge/criminal; N: place of shelter; refuge
abstruse	 	obscure; profound; difficult to understand
illusory	 	illusive; deceptive; not real
rapport	 	close relationship; emotional closeness; harmony
antecedents	 	preceding events that influence what comes later; ancestors or early background
vie	 	contend; compete
murky	 	dark and gloomy; thick with fog; vague; Ex. murky night/fog; N. murk: partial or complete darkness; gloom
whim	 	sudden capricious idea; fancy
accessory	 	additional object; useful but not essential thing
indifferent	 	unmoved or unconcerned by; having no interest in; mediocre; neither good nor bad
slavish	 	of or like a slave; servile; showing no originality; copied very closely; Ex. slavish devotion/copy of the original
foresight	 	ability to foresee future happenings; prudence in providing for the future
collation	 	a light meal; collating
venerable	 	deserving high respect; commanding respect; CF. command: deserve and get
balm	 	something that relieves pain; oily liquid with a pleasant smell from trees
spoonerism	 	accidental transposition of sounds in successive words; Ex. ``Let me sew you to your sheet'' for ``Let me show you to your seat''; CF. William Spooner
toll	 	sound (a large bell) slowly at regular intervals; N: sound of a bell; fixed tax or charge
pathological	 	pertaining to disease; N. pathology: study of disease
forbearance	 	patience; forgiveness; V. forbear: refrain from (in a generous and forgiving way); be patient; Ex. forbear to send him to prison
impede	 	hide; retard or obstruct the progress of; block
quench	 	assuage or satisfy (thrust); slake; douse or extinguish; put out; suppress
h 39
optimum	 	most favorable; optimal; N: most favorable condition
tumult	 	commotion of a great crowd; riot; noise; uproar; ADJ. tumultuous: noisy and disorderly
bristle	 	short stiff hair; V: (hair or fur) stand up stiffly
extricate	 	free from an entanglement or difficulty; disentangle
coin	 	make coins; invent or fabricate (a word or phrase); N. coinage: word or phrase recently invented
brusque	 	blunt; abrupt; curt; not wanting to waste time being nice
outlandish	 	bizzare; peculiar; unconventional
wizened	 	shriveled; withered; Ex. wizened apple/old lady
incessant	 	uninterrupted; unceasing
noncommittal	 	neutral; refusing commitment to a particular opinion;  unpledged; undecided
distill	 	refine (a liquid by evaporating and subsequent condensation); concentrate; separate the most important parts from; Ex. distill fresh water from sea water; CF. brew
refraction	 	bending of a ray of light
qualified	 	limited; restricted; V. qualify: limit the meaning of; modify
awe	 	solemn wonder; feeling of respect mixed with wonder and fear; V: fill with awe; ADJ. awesome
waft	 	move gently (in air or in seas) by wind or waves; Ex. leaves wafting past the window
degradation	 	humiliation; debasement; degeneration; V. degrade: debase; disgrace; degenerate; reduce (something) in worth; demote (someone); reduce in rank
consistency	 	absence of contradictions; uniformity; degree of thickness or firmness; Ex. consistency of thick cream; CF. viscous
bid	 	command; utter (a greeting); offer as a price; N: offer of a price; amount offered; earnest effort to gain something; Ex. bid for freedom
debase	 	degrade; reduce in quality or value; degenerate; lower in esteem; disgrace; N. debasement
mausoleum	 	monumental tomb; large stately tomb; CF. Mausolos
preclude	 	make impossible; prevent; exclude; eliminate
impending	 	nearing; approaching; about to happen
abdicate	 	renounce; give up (position, right, or responsibility)
motley	 	multi-colored (as of a garment worn by a jester); mixed; heterogeneous; CF. jester: one who jests (as a paid fool at medieval courts)
profusion	 	great amount; plenty; overabundance; excess; lavish expenditure; Ex. profusion of choices; ADJ. profuse: plentiful; copious; giving or given abundantly; extravagant
bedizen	 	dress with vulgar finery
witless	 	lacking intelligence or wit; foolish; idiotic
query	 	inquiry; question; V.
bemoan	 	lament; moan for; express sorrow or disapproval of
affable	 	easily approachable; easy to talk to; warmly friendly
shudder	 	shake uncontrollably; tremble; V.
relevant	 	having importance; pertinent; referring to the case in hand; N. relevance, relevancy
ramify	 	branch out; divide into branches or subdivisions
monolithic	 	solidly uniform; unchangeable; unyielding; N. monolith: large block of stone
boorish	 	rude; insensitive
precipitate	 	hurl downward; throw headlong; hasten; cause to happen sooner; condense and fall as rain or snow; cause (a solid substance) to be separated from a solution; ADJ. hasty; rash; premature; sudden
bask	 	luxuriate; take pleasure in warmth
trident	 	three-pronged spear
smirk	 	conceited smile; offensively self-satisfied smile (often at someone else's misfortune); V.
monotheism	 	belief in one God
interjection	 	exclamation; Ex. ``Ouch''
succor	 	assist (someone in difficulty); aid; comfort; N.
merit	 	deserve; ADJ. meritorious: deserving reward or praise
chicanery	 	trickery; deception
oblivious	 	inattentive or unmindful; unaware; wholly absorbed; forgetful(having the habit of forgetting)
unison	 	unity of pitch (in musical performance); complete accord; Ex. The choir sang in unison.
nurture	 	nourish; feed; educate; rear; care for while it is growing or developing; foster; cultivate; N: something that nourishes; rearing
genesis	 	beginning; origin
fictitious	 	imaginary; non-existent; purposely invented to deceive; untrue; Ex. fictitious name/boyfriend; CF. fictional
manifest	 	evident; visible; obvious; V: show plainly
pragmatist	 	practical person; N. pragmatism: pragmatic way of dealing with things
requiem	 	mass for the dead; dirge
annals	 	records arranged in yearly parts; history
snuffle	 	sniffle; sniff repeatedly (in order to keep liquid from running out of the nose)
laity	 	laypersons; laymen; persons not connected with the clergy
filibuster	 	block legislation or prevent action in a lawmaking body by making very slow long speeches; N; freebooter
comprise	 	include; consist of
tenuous	 	thin; slim; rare
clandestine	 	secret
tightwad	 	miser; excessively frugal person
knave	 	untrustworthy person; rogue; scoundrel; jack; N. knavery
debutante	 	young woman making formal entrance into society
escapade	 	prank; flighty conduct; reckless adventure that disobeys rules
archipelago	 	group of closely located islands
incommodious	 	not spacious; inconvenient
tiller	 	handle used to move boat's rudder (to steer)
transient	 	staying for a short time; momentary; temporary; N: one that is transient
concatenate	 	link as in a chain
missile	 	object to be thrown or projected
genteel	 	well-bred; elegant; striving to convey an appearance of refinement; Ex. genteel poverty
pedantic	 	bookish; showing off learning; marked by an excessive ostentatious concern for book learning; N. pedantry
pending	 	not yet decided or settled; impending; Ex. pending decision; PREP. while awaiting; until; Ex. delay the decision pending his return
blotch	 	spot; blot; CF. blot+botch
distort	 	twist out of shape; give a false account of; misrepresent; N. distortion
carapace	 	shell covering the back (of a turtle, tortoise, crab, etc.)
append	 	attach
grievance	 	cause of complaint; complaint
start	 	move suddenly or involuntarily; Ex. start at the sight of a snake
voracious	 	ravenous; eating large quantities of food; exceedingly eager; insatiable; Ex. voracious animal/reader
proponent	 	supporter; backer; opposite of opponent
conglomeration	 	mass of material sticking together
proximity	 	nearness; ADJ. proximate
verge	 	border; edge, rim, or margin; Ex. on the verge of: very near to; V: border on
exquisite	 	delicate; very finely made; extremely beautiful; Ex. exquisite piece of jewelry
purge	 	remove or get rid of something or someone unwanted; eliminate; free from blame or guilt; cleanse or purify (esp. of sin, guilt, or defilement); N.
yokel	 	rustic; country bumpkin; 촌놈
humid	 	damp; N. humidity
hackles	 	hairs on back and neck, especially of a dog; Ex. make someone's hackles rise
courier	 	messenger
regicide	 	murder of a king or queen
gouge	 	overcharge (with high price); extort from; Ex. gouge the public; CF. usury
embody	 	give a bodily form to; incorporate; include
brochure	 	pamphlet
badinage	 	teasing conversation; banter; joking talk
grouse	 	complain; fuss; grumble; grouch; N: plump chickenlike game bird
trepidation	 	fear; nervous apprehension
trenchant	 	cutting; incisive; keen
h 40
ordinance	 	decree; authoritative order
oversee	 	watch over and direct; supervise; N. oversight: unintentional failure to notice or do something; supervision
miniature	 	small model; small painting; ADJ: small
vivid	 	(of light or color) bright and distinct; evoking lifelike mental images; Ex. vivid red hair/description
snicker	 	half-stifled(suppressed) laugh; V.
hibernate	 	sleep throughout the winter; N. hibernation
wrongheaded	 	stubbornly wrong
rend	 	split; tear apart; N. rent; CF. heartrending: causing deep sorrow
enervate	 	weaken; take away energy from
convulsion	 	violent uncontrollable shaking movement (caused by illness); V. convulse; ADJ. convulsive
gloss_over	 	explain away with the intention of deceiving or hiding faults
proviso	 	stipulation; condition in an agreement; provision
definitive	 	most reliable; authorative and complete; that cannot be improved; conclusive; decisive; definite; Ex. definitive decision by the supreme court
perimeter	 	outer boundary; length of the outer boundary; circumference
angular	 	sharp-cornered; having an angle; not rounded (body); bony; lean; gaunt; stiff in manner
ambush	 	act of lying in wait to attack by surprise; sudden attack made from a concealed position; Ex. lie in ambush; V.
shyster	 	lawyer using questionable methods; unscrupulous practioner
denizen	 	(animal, person, or plant) inhabitant or resident of a particular place; regular visitor
preponderance	 	superiority of power, quantity, etc.; V. preponderate: be greater in power, weight, or importance; ADJ. preponderant
laggard	 	slow; sluggish; N: one who lags; straggler
dint	 	means; effort; Ex. by dint of hard work
pedigree	 	line of ancestors; ancestry; lineage; ADJ. (of an animal) descended from of a chosen family; Ex. pedigree dog; CF. crane's foot
impunity	 	freedom from punishment or harm; CF. punish
levy	 	impose (a fine); collect (a payment); impose or collect (a tax); Ex. levy a tax on tobacco
compatible	 	harmonious; in harmony with; able to exist together
efficacy	 	power to produce desired effect; ADJ. efficacious: effectual
collected	 	composed; calm; self-possessed
dupe	 	someone easily fooled or deceived; V: deceive
mettle	 	courage (to continue bravely in spite of difficulties); spirit; ADJ. mettlesome
salutary	 	tending to improve; beneficial; wholesome; Ex. The punishment had a salutary effect on the boy; CF. health
remnant	 	remainder
burlesque	 	give an imitation that ridicules; imitate mockingly
aerie(aery,eyrie,eyry)	 	nest of a large bird of prey
enormity	 	hugeness (in a bad sense); excessive wickedness; Ex. enormity of the crime; ADJ. enormous
salubrious	 	healthful; conducive to health or well-being; socially desirable; Ex. salubrious area; CF. health
vitreous	 	of glass; pertaining to or resembling glass; V. vitrify: change into glass; CF. petrify
premonitory	 	serving to warn
elevation	 	elevated position; altitude; height; flat upright side of a building; angle made by pointing a gun; Ex. The elevation of her style is much admired; Ex. front elevation of the house
gorge	 	narrow canyon; steep rocky cleft; ravine (made by a stream which runs through it)
contempt	 	scorn; disdain; ADJ. contemptuous; CF. contemptible
cache	 	hiding place; V.
sophistry	 	seemingly plausible but fallacious reasoning; sophism
penitent	 	repentant; N.
vignette	 	small drawing placed at the beginning or end of a chapter; picture; short literary sketch; short written description of a character or scene
extol	 	praise very highly; glorify
slew	 	large quantity or number; Ex. slew of errands left
expenditure	 	payment or expense; expending; something expended; output; Ex. receipt for the expenditure; Ex. expenditure of all the energy
piety	 	devoutness; reverence for God; ADJ. pious
delude	 	deceive
poultice	 	soothing application applied to sore and inflamed portions of the body
cynical	 	skeptical or distrustful of human motives; N. cynicism; CF. cynic: person who believes all people are motivated by selfishness
inebriated	 	habitually intoxicated; drunk; N. inebriety
psyche	 	soul; mind
eschew	 	avoid habitually; Ex. eschew alcoholic drinks
irrepressible	 	unable to be restrained or held back; impossible to hold back
exorbitant	 	(of costs or demands) excessive; exceeding reasonable bounds
innate	 	inborn
receptive	 	quick or willing to receive (ideas, suggestions, etc.); Ex. receptive to the proposal
assuage	 	mak less severe; ease or lessen (pain); satisfy (hunger); soothe (anger)
inasmuch_as	 	since; owing to the fact that
expos\'e	 	public revelation of something discreditable
pr\'ecis	 	abstract; concise summing up of main points; concise summary of a text
abominate	 	loathe; hate
underhand(underhanded)	 	done slyly and secretly (being dishonest)
atavism	 	resemblance to remote ancestors rather than to parents; reversion to an earlier type; throwback; ADJ. atavistic
seminary	 	school for training future ministers; secondary school, especially for young women
personable	 	attractive (in personality or appearance)
muggy	 	(of weather) warm and damp
stink	 	stench; V: emit a strong foul odor
duress	 	forcible restraint, especially unlawfully; coercion by threat; illegal coercion; Ex. a promise made under duress
peevish	 	bad-tempered; irritable; V. peeve: make angry
swerve	 	deviate; turn aside sharply from a straight course; Ex. swerve from the principle; Ex. The car swerved to the right.
indentation	 	notch; deep recess; V. indent; CF. tooth
quandary	 	dilemma; state of uncertainty; Ex. She is in a quandary about whether to go.
coiffure	 	hairstyle
demure	 	(of a woman or child) grave; quiet and serious; coy; pretending to be demure
sanguine	 	optimistic; cheerful; hopeful; of the color of blood; red
bombardment	 	attack (as with missiles or bombs); V. bombard
flaccid	 	flabby; lacking firmness; weak; Ex. flaccid muscles
unearthly	 	not earthly; supernatural; weird; ghostly
fiasco	 	total failure; CF. bottle
threat	 	sign or warning (of coming danger); Ex. threat of rain; V: express a threat; give warning of (something bad); Ex. The cloud threatens rain.
deplore	 	regret; express sorrow and severe disapproval for something bad; Ex. deplore their violent behavior; ADJ. deplorable: very bad; deserving severe disapproval; Ex. deplorable living condition
retribution	 	deserved punishment for wrongdoing; punishment for offenses; compensation; vengeance; CF. pay back
titillate	 	tickle; excite pleasantly; Ex. not to titillate the audience but to enlighten it
manifestation	 	outward demonstration; manifesting; indication of the presence of something; Ex. manifestation of his pronounced musical bent
irrefutable	 	indisputable; incontrovertible; undeniable
clangor	 	loud resounding noise; sound of repeated clanging
random	 	without definite purpose, plan, or aim; haphazard; Ex. random shots; Ex. chosen at random
reverend	 	deserving reverence; N: priest
engaged	 	employed; busy; betrothed; involved in conflict
repartee	 	quick clever reply
enfranchise	 	admit to the rights of citizenship (especially the right to vote); CF. franchise
suppliant	 	entreating; beseeching; N.
rampant	 	growing or spreading uncontrollably; growing in profusion; unrestrained; Ex. rampant lawlessness/weed
compute	 	reckon; calculate
fusillade	 	simultaneous firing or outburst (of missiles, questions, etc.)
h 41
defiance	 	refusal to yield; resistance; V. defy; ADJ. defiant
disabuse	 	correct a false impression; undeceive; free from a wrong belief
wrath	 	anger; fury
transcendental	 	going beyond common thought or ideas; impossible to understand by practical experiences or practices; known only by studying thoughts or intuition; OP. empirical; CF. transcendentalism
multifarious	 	varied; greatly diversified; Ex. multifarious activities
resourceful	 	clever and imaginative (in dealing with difficult situations); N. resource, resourcefulness
omniscient	 	all-knowing
callous	 	hardened; unfeeling; without sympathy for the sufferings of others; unkind
seduce	 	lead away from proper conduct; entice; ADJ. seductive
retroactive	 	taking effect before its enactment (as a law) or imposition (as a tax); (of a law) having effect on the past as well as the future
chancellor	 	legal official of high rank; CF. chancellery(chancellory): position of a chancellor
blatant	 	extremely (offensively) obvious; loudly offensive; Ex. blatant lie; N. blatancy
buxom	 	full-bosomed; plump; jolly
servile	 	slavish; cringing; N. servility
centurion	 	Roman army officer (commanding a company of about 100 soldiers)
linger	 	loiter or dawdle; be slow in leaving; delay going; continue or persist; be slow to disappear; Ex. The smell lingered for days.
coda	 	concluding section of a musical or literary composition
bolster	 	support; reinforce
premise	 	assumption; postulate; proposition upon which an argument is based
striated	 	marked with parallel bands; striped; grooved; Ex. striated rocks; V. striate; N. stria: thin groove or line
rejuvenate	 	make young again
apiculture	 	bee-keeping
promiscuous	 	mixed indiscriminately; indiscriminate; not choosing carefully; indiscriminate in the choice of sexual partners; irregular, particularly sexually; Ex. promiscuous life/girl; N. promiscuity
warranted	 	justified; authorized
evasive	 	not frank; trying to hide the truth; eluding; evading; V. evade: avoid (a duty or responsibility) or escape from by deceit
nib	 	beak(bill); pen point
tanner	 	person who turns animal hides into leather
clairvoyant	 	having foresight; fortuneteller; N. clairvoyance
redundant	 	superfluous; more than is necessary; verbose; excessively wordy; repetitious
dubious	 	questionable; (of something) causing doubt; (of someone) filled with doubt; N. dubiety
elicit	 	draw out fact or information (by discussion or from someone)
authenticate	 	prove genuine
arbitrary	 	unreasonable or capricious; random; tyrannical; Ex. arbitrary ruler
unwonted	 	unaccustomed; unusual; Ex. He arrived with unwonted punctuality.
ulterior	 	intentionally hidden; beyond what is evident; situated beyond; unstated and often questionable; Ex. ulterior motive
marital	 	pertaining to marriage
choice	 	delicate; of very fine quality
caldron(cauldron)	 	large kettle
entrepreneur	 	businessperson (who assumes the risk of a business venture); contractor; ADJ. entrepreneurial
tranquillity	 	calmness; peace
impermeable	 	impervious; not permitting passage through its substance; impossible to permeate
sly	 	clever in deceiving; secretive; not telling one's intentions
strident	 	loud and harsh; insistent; N. stridency
catastrophe	 	calamity ; disaster
wanton	 	unrestrained; gratuitously cruel; willfully malicious; unchaste; sexually improper; promiscuous; Ex. wanton spending/killing; CF. having no just cause
arbitrate	 	act as judge (at the request of both sides)
maculated	 	spotted; stained; CF. immaculate
gleam	 	brief flash of light; glow; V.
pudding	 	hot sweet dish
ascribe	 	refer; attribute; assign
antiquity	  quality of being very old; ancient times; 고대
implacable	 	incapable of being pacified; impossible to appease; Ex. implacable enemy
ingenious	 	marked by inventive skill; clever; resourceful; N. ingenuity
outgoing	 	sociable; eager to mix socially with others
glossy	 	smooth and shining; N. gloss: shiny brightness on a surface; superficially attractive appearance; Ex. gloss of good manners
vulnerable	 	susceptible to wounds or attack; N. vulnerability
puerile	 	childish; immature; CF. puer: boy
pliant	 	flexible; easily influenced
machinations	 	evil schemes or plots; schemes or plots to achieve an evil end; V. machinate
colossal	 	huge
insensate	 	without feeling; lacking sense; foolish
lumber	 	move heavily or clumsily; Ex. The bear lumbered through the woods; N: timber
ostentatious	 	showy; trying to attract attention; pretentious; N. ostentation: showy display
guise	 	outward appearance; costume; Ex. in a new guise
whiff	 	puff or gust (of air, scent, etc.); short-lasting smell; hint; Ex. whiff of perfume/scandal
appease	 	pacify or soothe; Ex. appease a crying baby; N. appeasement
hieroglyphic	 	picture writing; ADJ.
frigid	 	intensely cold; cold in manner; Ex. frigid zone
manacle	 	restrain; handcuff; N.
austere	 	forbiddingly stern; ascetic; without comfort or enjoyment; severely simple and unornamented; Ex. a monk's austere life; Ex. austere grandeur of the cathedral; N. austerity
analogy	 	similarity; parallelism; comparing two similar things
energize	 	invigorate; give energy to; make forceful and active
submissive	 	willing to obey orders; yielding; timid
antidote	 	remedy to counteract a poison or disease; Ex. antidote to the economic troubles
lookout	 	act of keeping watch; high place commanding a wide view; person who keeps watch
prevalent	 	widespread; generally accepted
colander	 	utensil with perforated bottom used for straining
projectile	 	missile; fired or thrown object (such as stone or bullet)
pantomime	 	acting without dialogue; V.
welter	 	wallow (as in mud or high seas); lie soaked (as in blood); Ex. The victims weltered in their blood.
slovenly	 	untidy; careless in work habits; slipshod; N. sloven: one who is habitually untidy or careless
matriarch	 	woman who rules a family or larger social group
abusive	 	coarsely insulting; physically harmful
titanic	 	gigantic; N. titan
entice	 	lure; persuade to do (something wrong); attract; tempt
hypocritical	 	pretending to be virtuous; deceiving; N. hypocrisy: profession of beliefs one does not possess; CF. hypocrite
paramour	 	illicit lover
reprieve	 	postponement or cancelation of a punishment; temporary stay; V: postpone or cancel the punishment of
filigree	 	delicate ornamental lacelike metalwork
deterrent	 	something that discourages or deters
backslide	 	revert (to bad habits); N. reverter
metamorphosis	 	change of form; Ex. metamorphosis of caterpillar to butterfly; V. metamorphose: change by metamorphosis
caricature	 	distortion; burlesque
appurtenances	 	subordinate possessions; something added to a more important thing
animadversion	 	critical remark; V. animadvert: comment critically with disapproval
coercion	 	use of force to get someone to object; compelling; V. coerce
quell	 	suppress; put an end to; put down forcibly; extinguish; quiet; Ex. ``Army Quells Rebellion'' in newspaper; CF. kill
h 42
terminology	 	terms used in a science or art; study of nomenclature
hover	 	hang about; (of birds or aircraft) stay in the air in one place; (of people) wait nearby; stay around one place; waver; be in an uncertain state
studious	 	given to diligent study
antler	  bony growth on the head of a deer
palpable	 	tangible; (of something bad) easily perceptible; obvious; Ex. palpable blunder
palatable	 	agreeable; pleasing to the taste
cremate	 	incinerate (a corpse); N. crematory, crematorium
tablet	 	small round piece of medicine; flat piece of stone or metal bearing an inscription; Ex. stone tablet on the wall
grunt	 	utter a deep guttural sound (as a pig does); N.
supine	 	lying on back; passive; inactive; Ex. The defeated pugilist lay supine; Ex. supine acceptance of the decision
engulf	 	surround and swallow up
annotate	 	comment; make explanatory notes
personify	 	represent (an inanimate object) as a person; be the embodiment or perfect example of; Ex. She is evil/patience personified; N. personification
muster	 	gather; assemble (troops); Ex. muster up one's strength for the ordeal; N.
cohabit	 	live together
coddle	 	treat gently; indulge excessively; pamper; mollycoddle; baby; cook in water just below boiling point; Ex. coddled eggs
acclimate	 	adjust to climate or environment; adapt
susceptible	 	impressionable; easily influenced; sensitive; having little resistance as to a disease; likely to suffer; receptive to; capable of accepting; Ex. susceptible to persuasion/colds; Ex. The agreement is not susceptible of alteration; N. susceptibility
crinkle	 	wrinkle
titular	 	of a title; in name only; nominal; having the title of an office without the obligations; Ex. titular head of the company
rebus	 	representation of words in the form of pictures or symbols; puzzle in which pictures or letters stand for words; Ex. ``R U 18'' is a rebus for ``Are you 18''.
rip	 	tear or be torn quickly and violently; Ex. The sail ripped under the force of the wind; N.
brim	 	uppermost edge of a cup; projecting rim (as on a hat); Ex. The glass was full to the brim; V: be full to the brim
aesthetic	 	artistic; dealing with or capable of appreciating the beautiful (of a person or building); CF. aesthete; CF. aesthetics
schism	 	division into factions (esp. within a religious body); split
outfit	 	clothing or equipment for a special purpose; Ex. cowboy outfit
bookish	 	fond of books and reading
cuisine	 	style of cooking; Ex. French cuisine
moribund	 	dying; at the point of death; CF. death
upbraid	 	reprimand; severely scold
parody	 	humorous imitation; spoof; takeoff; travesty; V.
jovial	 	good-natured; merry; cheerful
encumber	 	burden; N. encumbrance
giddy	 	light-hearted; not serious; frivolous; dizzy; causing dizziness; Ex. giddy youth; Ex. giddy climb/height
implausible	 	unlikely (to be true); unbelievable; Ex. implausible alibi
drudge	 	do drudgery; N: person who drudges
suitor	 	man who is courting a woman
far-fetched	 	too improbable to be believed; implausible; Ex. far-fetched story
intimidate	 	frighten; N. intimidation
ventral	 	abdominal
utopia	 	ideal place, state, or society; ADJ. utopian
hazardous	 	dangerous
drastic	 	strong; violent and severe; Ex. drastic changes/measures
impinge	 	infringe; encroach; influence; touch; collide with; Ex. The effects are impinging on every aspect of our lives.
misgivings	 	doubts
siren	 	apparatus for making sounds; womanlike creature
piecemeal	 	one part at a time; gradually; in stages; Ex. read a novel piecemeal
regimen	 	prescribed course of diet or exercise; prescribed diet and habits; Ex. daily regimen of a dancer
temporal	 	of time; not lasting forever; limited by time; temporary; secular; worldly
relegate	 	put into a lower or worse place; banish to an inferior position; delegate; assign; Ex. relegate the old furniture to the children's room; Ex. relegated to the second division
beatific	 	giving or showing bliss; blissful
arraign	 	charge in court; indict
antagonism	 	hostility; active opposition; V. antagonize: cause to become an enemy; N. antagonist: person who is opposed to another; opponent; adversary; principal character in oppostion to the protagonist
inchoate	 	(of desire, wish, plan) recently begun; not explicit; at the beginning of development; rudimentary; elementary; Ex. inchoate mass
bridle	 	harness fitted about a horse's head (used to restrain); curb; check; V: put a bridle on; control or restrain; show anger
significant	 	expressing a meaning; important; Ex. significant smile; N. significance: importance; meaning; V. signify: denote; mean; signal; make known; matter; be significant
aloof	 	apart; not open in one's relationship with other people; reserved; ADV.
stratum	 	layer of earth's surface; layer of society; PL. strata
lounge	 	stand, sit, or lie in a lazy, relaxed way
lineage	 	descent; ancestry
pendant(pendent)	 	hanging down from something; pending; N: ornament (hanging from a necklace etc.)
modish	 	fashionable; conforming to the current fashion
circumvent	 	outwit; defeat by behaving more cleverly; outsmart; baffle; avoid; get around
livid	 	lead-colored; black and blue (as from a bruise); ashen; enraged; extremely angry
leery	 	(of someone) suspicious; wary; cautious
veracious	 	(of a person) truthful
vigil	 	keeping watch (during normal sleeping hours); Ex. all-night vigil
parlance	 	language; manner of speaking; idiom; Ex. in legal/common parlance
litany	 	supplicatory prayer; prayer in which the priest calls out and the people replies in the same words
offensive	 	attacking; insulting; distasteful; V. offend: violate; hurt the feelings of; N. offense: offending; violating of a moral or social code; crime; attack; Ex. first offense
stench	 	strong foul odor; reek; stink
incapacitate	 	disable; N. incapacity: lack of capacity
tramp	 	walk with a heavy step; travel on foot; N: vagrant; one who travels aimlessly about; long walk; sound of heavy walking
functionary	 	official (who performs a particular function)
rapacious	 	voracious; ravenous; taking everything one can; excessively grasping; plundering; subsisting on live prey; Ex. rapacious birds
simulate	 	feign; imitate
depose	 	dethrone; remove from office; give a deposition; testify
conduit	 	aqueduct; passageway for fluids
flighty	 	(esp. of a woman's behavior) capricious; often changing, esp. from one lover to another; impulsive
referendum	 	direct vote by all the people
worldly	 	engrossed in matters of this earth; not spiritual; of the material world
contrived	 	unnatural and forced; artificial; not spontaneous; Ex. The ending was rather contrived.
ethos	 	underlying character of a culture, group, etc.; character or ideas peculiar to a specific person, group, or culture; Ex. the company ethos
disjointed	 	disconnected; lacking coherence; V. disjoint: disconnect; disjoin
hallowed	 	blessed; consecrated; Ex. hallowed ground; V. hallow: set apart as holy
ecologist	 	person concerned with the interrelationship between living organisms and their environment; person concerned with the detrimental effects of human civilization on the environment; CF. ecology
disclose	 	reveal; N. disclosure
weary	 	tired after long work; V.
encroachment	 	gradual intrusion; Ex. I resent all these encroachments on my valuable time; V. encroach: take another's possessions or right gradually or stealthily; intrude; Ex. encroach on/upon
spoof	 	parody
noxious	 	harmful; CF. obnoxious
puzzle	 	baffle or confuse by a difficult problem; ponder over a problem in an effort to solve; clarify or solve by reasoning; Ex. puzzle out the answer; N.
reprove	 	censure; rebuke; N. reproof
paleontology	 	study of prehistoric life or fossils; CF. paleo-: ancient or prehistoric; Ex. paleography: study of ancient written documents
stout	 	rather fat; strong in body; sturdy; resolute; determined; strong in determination; Ex. stout stick/supporter
plebiscite	 	direct vote by the entire electorate (on an important issue)
circumlocution	 	indirect or roundabout expression (by using an uncecessarily large number of words esp. when trying to avoid answering a difficult question directly)
h 43
swarm	 	large group of insects moving in a mass; crowd of people or animals; V: move in a crowd or mass
culprit	 	one guilty of a crime
generality	 	vague statement; general statement which is not detailed; quality of being general; greater part; most; Ex. generality of people
veritable	 	being truly so; real or genuine; actual; not false or imaginary
respite	 	time for rest; interval of relief; delay in punishment; reprieve
pragmatic	 	practical (as opposed to idealistic); concerned with practical worth or impact of something; Ex. pragmatic test of the skill
sledge	 	large sled drawn by work animals
seasonal	 	of a particular season; Ex. seasonal rise in employment
lag	 	move or develop more slowly; straggle; Ex. lag behind the rest; N.
tactful	  careful no to cause offence; OP. tactless 
unprecedented	 	having no previous example; novel; unparalleled
opiate	 	medicine to induce sleep or deaden pain; something that relieves emotions or causes inaction; sleep-producing drug containing opium
musky	 	having the odor of musk; N. musk: odorous substance secreted by an Asian deer
malediction	 	curse
fritter	 	waste (time or money on unimportant things)
brandish	 	wave around (a weapon); flourish
pugnacity	 	combativeness; disposition to fight; ADJ. pugnacious: (of people) belligerent; combative in nature
exasperate	 	vex; annoy or make angry (by testing the patience)
germinate	 	cause to sprout; sprout
memento	 	token; reminder of the past; keepsake; Ex. memento of your visit
reconnaissance	 	survey of enemy by soldiers; reconnoitering; V. reconnoiter: make a preliminary inspection of (esp. to gather military information)
oath	 	solemn promise; blasphemous use of sacred words to express strong feelings; swear-word; Ex. ``For Christ's sake''
thwart	 	block or hinder; baffle; frustrate
vehement	 	forceful; intensely emotional; with marked vigor; strong; N. vehemence
contraband	 	illegal trade; smuggling; smuggled goods; ADJ.
wrench	 	twist; pull; strain; Ex. He wrenched the gun out of her hands.
dainty	 	delicate; delicately beautiful; fastidious; not easy to please; Ex. dainty movement/dress
zephyr	 	gentle breeze; west wind
waylay	 	ambush; lie in wait for and attack
contrite	 	penitent; repentant; N. contrition
treasure	 	keep as precious; cherish
ford	 	place where a river can be crossed on foot; V.
patrician	 	noble; aristocratic; N: person of high rank; aristocrat; CF. member of the governing classes in ancient Rome; CF. plebian
languor	 	lack of physical or mental energy; lassitude; depression
foreshadow	 	give an indication beforehand; be a sign of (what is coming); portend; prefigure
germane	 	pertinent; bearing upon(having connection with) the case at hand; appropriate
reprehensible	 	deserving blame; blameworthy; V. reprehend: blame
eon(aeon)	 	long period of time; an age; longest division of geologic time containing two or more eras
daub	 	smear (as with paint); cover with something sticky; Ex. daub one's clothes with mud/paint; N: small bit of sticky substance; Ex. a daub of paint
subordinate	 	occupying a lower rank; inferior; submissive; N. V: put in a lower rank or class
antediluvian	 	antiquated; extremely ancient
stately	 	formal; ceremonious; grand in style or size; majestic
interminable	 	endless
proverb	 	adage; someone or something well known for notoriety; ADJ. proverbial: of a proverb; widely known; ADV. proverbially
venue	 	location; place (of a crime, trial, gathering, etc.); CF. come
distinction	 	honor; excellence; difference; contrast; discrimination; Ex. graduated with distinction; Ex. a writer of real distinction
converge	 	approach; tend to meet; come together
inconsistency	 	state of being self-contradictory; lack of uniformity or steadiness; ADJ. inconsistent: displaying a lack of consistency; erratic; contradictory; incompatible
commemorative	 	remembering; honoring the memory of; Ex. commemorative stamp
incorporate	 	introduce something into a larger whole; include; embody; give material form to; ADJ.
hone	 	sharpen (a tool); N: whetstone for sharpening a tool
amenities	 	convenient features that helps to make life pleasant; social courtesies
averse	 	reluctant; disinclined; not liking or opposed; Ex. averse to cats/doing the house work
speechless	 	unable for the moment to speak (because of strong feeling); Ex. speechless with anger
prepossessing	 	attractive; CF. preoccupying ?
arrears	 	being in debt; money that should have been paid; work that should have been done
providence	 	quality of being provident; divine care; god's care; Providence: god; Ex. It seemed like providence that the doctor happened to be there; ADJ. providential: of divine providence; fortunate
witticism	 	witty saying; wisecrack(clever joking remark)
hue	 	color; aspect; Ex. opinions of every hue
brawl	 	noisy quarrel
misconstrue	 	interpret incorrectly; misinterpret; misjudge
auxiliary	 	offering or providing help; additional or subsidiary; N: helper; assistant
derogatory	 	expressing a low opinion; disparaging; V. derogate: detract; disparage
divine	 	perceive intuitively (by or as if by magic); foresee the future; foretell; dowse; ADJ. N. divination
impart	 	grant a share of; make known; Ex. news to impart
vertigo	 	severe dizziness; giddiness
forerunner	 	predecessor; one that comes before and indicates the approach of another
abnegation	 	renunciation; self-sacrifice; self-abnegation
breadth	 	width; extent
acrophobia	 	fear of heights
reminiscent	 	suggestive of something (in the past); of reminiscence
blight	 	plant disease; V: infect with blight; ruin; destroy
psychiatrist	 	doctor who treats mental diseases
scraps	 	leftover food
kinetic	 	producing motion; of motion
corroborate	 	confirm; support; strengthen
polity	 	(particular form of) political organization; form of government of nation or state; Ex. student polity
discount	 	disregard; regard (a story or news) as unimportant; deduct from a cost
oust	 	expel; drive out; force out; N. ouster: ousting
hereafter	 	life after death
putrescent	 	becoming putrid; putrefying
institute	 	organization for a special purpose; V: establish
kudos	 	honor; glory; acclaim or praise for exceptional achievement
feud	 	bitter prolonged quarrel (usually between two peoples or families); V. CF. Romeo and Juliet; CF. feudal, feudalism
exceptionable	 	objectionable; likely to cause dislike; offensive; CF. unexceptionable: entirely acceptable
consign	 	send to a person or place for sale; deliver officially; entrust; put into the care of another; set apart (for a special purpose); N. consignment; CF. consignor, consignee
parallelism	 	state of being parallel; similarity; analogy
disavowal	 	denial; disclaiming; repudiating; disowning; V. disavow; CF. disclaim
infidel	 	unbeliever (with respect to a particular religion)
bantering	 	joking talk; good-naturedly ridiculing; N.V. banter
amorous	 	moved by sexual love; loving; of sexual love; Ex. amorous advances
haphazard	 	random; by chance; happening in an unplanned manner; Ex. haphazard growth of the town
reminiscence	 	recollection; V. reminisce: recollect the past
restraint	 	moderation or self-control; controlling force; restriction
dormant	 	sleeping; temporarily inactive; lethargic; latent
bump	 	hit or knock against with force; N.
despise	 	look on with scorn; regard as worthless or distasteful; ADJ. despicable: contemptible
h 44
unrequited	 	not requited; not reciprocated; Ex. unrequited love
indite	 	write; compose
mercenary	 	motivated solely by money or gain; N.
ashen	 	ash-colored; deadly pale
conventional	 	ordinary; typical; not nuclear; Ex. conventional weapons
sobriety	 	moderation (especially regarding indulgence in alcohol); seriousness
graduated	 	arranged by degrees (of height, difficulty, etc.)
thespian	 	pertaining to drama; N: actor or actress
ligneous	 	like wood
felicity	 	happiness; appropriateness (of a remark, choice, etc.); quality of being felicitous
malfeasance	 	wrongdoing; misconduct (by a public official)
mural	 	wall painting
forgo(forego)	 	give up; do without
fuddle	 	make stupid or confused as with alcholic drink; N. in a fuddle: confused
sustain	 	suffer (harm or loss); experience; support; prop; maintain; keep in existence; nourish (to maintain life); Ex. sustain the family/the trapped miners
slacken	 	slow up; loosen; make or become slack
presentiment	 	premonition; foreboding; feeling something will happen; anticipatory fear
superimpose	 	place over something else
supplicate	 	petition humbly; pray to grant a favor
potential	 	expressing possibility; latent; N: capacity for growth
quip	 	taunt; clever sarcastic remark; V.
dissuade	 	persuade not to do; discourage; N. dissuasion
hypothetical	 	based on assumptions or hypotheses; supposed; N. hypothesis
withhold	 	refuse to give; hold back; Ex. withholding tax
acute	 	(of the senses) sharp; quickly perceptive; keen; penetrating; brief and severe; Ex. acute sense of smell/analysis/pain
paltry	 	insignificant; petty; trifling; contemptible; Ex. paltry sum; CF. trash
travail	 	strenuous work; toil; painful labor; labor of childbirth
atone	 	make amends for; pay for; Ex. atone for
requisite	 	necessary requirement; something required; ADJ: required; necessary
vernacular	 	living language (as compared to the official language); language spoken in a country or region; natural style; Ex. lapse into the vernacular
gargoyle	 	waterspout carved in grotesque figures on a building
unfrock	 	defrock; strip a priest or minister of church authority
apocryphal	 	(of a story) widely believed but untrue	
gnarl	 	protruding knot on a tree; V.
riddle	 	pierce with holes; permeate or spread throughout; Ex. The gunman riddled the car with bullets; Ex. The whole report is riddled with errors; N. large sieve (separating earth from stone)
torrent	 	rushing stream; flood; Ex. The rain fell in torrents.
unscathed	 	unharmed; Ex. escape the accident unscathed
anarchist	 	person who seeks to overturn the established government; advocate of abolishing authority
strut	 	supporting bar; CF. airplane wing이나 building 등을 support 
luster	 	shine; gloss (of a polished surface)
verisimilitude	 	appearance of truth; quality of appearing to be true or real; likelihood; Ex. verisimilitude of her performance as Lady Macbeth
enliven	 	make lively or spirited; animate
vulture	 	carrion-eating birds
flowery	 	full of flowers; full of ornate expressions
harass	 	annoy by repeated attacks
sinister	 	evil; ominous
devolve	 	deputize; pass or be passed to others (power, work, or property); Ex. devolve on/upon/to
heinous	 	atrocious; wicked; hatefully bad; Ex. heinous crime
adverse	 	going against; opposing; unfavorable; hostile
rigor	 	severity; Ex. rigors of the Russian winter
shackle	 	chain; fetter; confine with shackles; N.
prop	 	support placed under or against something; V.
sumptuous	 	grand suggesting great expense; lavish; rich; Ex. sumptuous feast
fulminate	 	thunder; explode; issue a severe denunciation
prim	 	proper to the point of affectation; very precise and formal; exceedingly proper
clout	 	great influence (especially political or social); hard blow with fist
sluggish	 	lazy; slow; inactive; lethargic; CF. slug: nail with no shell
dribble	 	flow or fall in drops; let saliva flow out slowly from the mouth; move a ball; N.
prong	 	pointed projecting part
sedulous	 	diligent; assiduous; paying attention; N. sedulity
fashion	 	give shape to; make; Ex. fashion the pot out of clay
apprehend	 	arrest (a criminal); dread; perceive; N. apprehension
panacea	 	cure-all; remedy for all diseases
recurrent	 	occurring again and again
plethora	 	excess; overabundance; Ex. a plethora of excuses
bloated	 	(unpleasantly) swollen or puffed as with water or air
subsequent	 	following in time or order; later
traduce	 	expose to slander
prod	 	poke (with a pointed object); stir up; urge; goad to action; N: pointed object used to prod; prodding
inequity	 	unfairness; ADJ. inequitable
demean	 	disgrace; humiliate; debase in dignity; behave
torque	 	twisting force; force producing rotation
wallow	 	roll in mud; indulge in; (of a ship) roll in a rough sea; become helpless; Ex. wallow in the mud/luxury
foment	 	stir up; incite; instigate; promote the growth of (something evil or unpleasant)
flashy	 	showy; gaudy; giving a momentary brilliance
inamorata	 	woman whom a man loves
forum	 	public square of an ancient Roman city; public place for open discussion; court of law
blandishment	 	flattery
adjunct	 	something attached to but holding an inferior position
realm	 	kingdom; field or sphere; Ex. not within the realms of possibility
anemia	 	condition in which blood lacks red corpuscles; ADJ. anemic
pinch	 	squeeze between the thumb and a finger, or other edges; Ex. I had to pinch myself to make sure I wasn't dreaming. N: amount that can be held between the thumb and a finger
prurient	 	having or causing lustful desires and thoughts; arousing immoderate sexual desire
erratic	 	odd; irregular in movement or behavior; unpredictable
incinerate	 	burn to ashes
adjoin	  be next to
tactile	 	pertaining to the organs or sense of touch
fluency	 	smoothness of speech; ADJ. fluent
prolific	 	producing offspring or fruit in abundance; fertile; fecund; abundantly fruitful; producing abundant works; Ex. prolific writer
snivel	 	complain or whine tearfully; run at the nose; snuffle; Ex. Don't come back sniveling to me.
philanderer	 	faithless lover; flirt
laborious	 	demanding much work or care; tedious
rancor	 	long-lasting hatred; bitterness; Ex. negotiation without rancor; ADJ. rancorous
palpitate	 	throb; beat rapidly; flutter; tremble; Ex. Her heart began to palpitate.
tread	 	walk; trample; N: grooved face of a tire; horizontal part of a step
mat	 	not shiny; matte; having a dull finish; N: flat piece of material used as a floor covering; V.
h 45
dissimulate	 	pretend; conceal by feigning; dissemble
enlist	 	(cause to) join the armed forces; obtain (help, sympathy, or support)
rally	 	come or bring together; call up or summon (forces, vital powers, etc.); revive or recuperate (after illness or difficulty); N: act of rallying; mass gathering
crest	 	top (as of a hill or wave); showy feathers on the head of a bird
cadaverous	 	like a corpse; pale
outrage	 	act of extreme violence or viciousness; resentful anger; V: commit an outrage on; produce anger in; ADJ. outrageous: offensive
reciprocate	 	do or give something in return; repay in kind; give or take mutually; interchange; move backwards and forwards; Ex. reciprocate his invitation by inviting him; N. reciprocity: reciprocal relationship; mutual interchange of advantages between two groups; Ex. reciprocity in trading rights
mischief	 	behavior (of children) causing trouble with no serious harm; damage; harm; Ex. mischief to the crops; ADJ. mischievous: causing mischief; playfully troublesome
mite	 	very small object or insect-like creature; small coin
placebo	 	harmless substance prescribed as a dummy pill
impeccable	 	faultless
terminal	 	part that forms the end; railroad or bus station; ADJ. forming an end; ending in death; fatal; Ex. terminal cancer
figment	 	invention; something invented; imaginary thing; Ex. figment of your imagination
refute	 	disprove; prove to be false; N. refutation
pretend	 	feign; pretend to: claim to possess; make pretensions to; Ex. I don't pretend to much expertise; N. pretense
rampart	 	defensive mound of earth
wont	 	(the stated person's) habit or custom; habitual procedure; ADJ. wonted: customary
animated	 	lively; spirited
indomitable	 	unconquerable; unyielding
feasible	 	practical; able to be carried out; practicable
indignity	 	treatment or situation that causes shame or loss of dignity, respect; offensive or insulting treatment; humiliating or degrading treatment; Ex. I suffered the indignity of having to say that in front of them.
contusion	 	bruise
dotage	 	senility; feeblemindedness of old age; Ex. In one's dotage
wrinkle	 	small ridge on a smooth surface (face or cloth); V.
amazon	 	female warrior
ambidextrous	 	capable of using either hand with equal ease
malicious	 	hateful; spiteful; expressing malice; N. malice: desire to harm others; spite
disseminate	 	distribute; spread; scatter (like seeds)
grim	 	causing great fear; unrelenting; determined in spite of fear; Ex. grim smile
lavish	 	liberal; wasteful; generous or wasteful in giving or using; abundant; profuse; great; Ex. decorated lavishly; V. give in abundance
impenitent	 	not repentant
obstreperous	 	boisterous; noisy and uncontrollable
substantial	 	of substance; material; solid; essential or fundamental; ample; considerable; well-to-do; wealthy
affinity	 	feeling of kinship; similarity; Ex. strong affinity for her; Ex. many affinities between two languages
executive	 	person having administrative authority; one branch of government executing laws; ADJ: relating to executing
gullible	 	easily deceived
subsidy	 	direct financial aid by government, etc.; V. subsidize: assist with a subsidy
Shangri-la	 	imaginary remote paradise on earth; CF. Lost Horizon
recrimination	 	countercharges; V. recriminate
procrastinate	 	postpone; delay or put off
agitate	 	stir up; disturb
disquisition	 	formal systematic inquiry; explanation of the results of a formal inquiry; long formal speech or written report
contaminate	 	pollute
amiss	 	wrong; faulty; Ex. something amiss; ADV.
potentate	 	monarch; sovereign
pristine	 	unspoiled; remaining in a pure state; characteristic of earlier times; primitive; Ex. an old book in pristine condition
homage	 	honor; tribute; great respect; Ex. pay/do homage to
choleric	 	hot-tempered; bad-tempered; irritable; easily angered; CF. cholera
heed	 	pay attention to; N: close attention
extraneous	 	not essential; irrelevant; superfluous; external; coming from the outside; Ex. extraneous details/noise/to the subject
suffragist	 	advocate of the extension of voting rights (for women); CF. suffrage
finesse	 	delicate skill; V: handle with finesse
propagate	 	increase in number by producing young; multiply; spread; Ex. Most plants propagate by seed; Ex. newspaper propagating their ideas
foil	 	contrast; one that by contrast enhances the distinctive characteristics of another
transcendent	 	exceeding ordinary limits; superior; surpassing; V. transcend: go beyond; exceed; surpass; N. transcendancy
hermetic	 	sealed by fusion so as to be airtight; airtight
ablution	 	washing
dinghy	 	small boat (often ship's boat)
propinquity	 	nearness (in space or relationship); proximity; kinship
innovation	 	change; something newly introduced; introduction of something new; V. innovate: begin or introduce (something new); be creative; ADJ. innovative
writ	 	written command issued by a court (telling someone to do or not to do something)
schematic	 	of a schema or scheme; relating to an outline or diagram; using a system of symbols; N. schema: diagrammatic representation; outline
ego	 	one's opinion of oneself; self-esteem
score	 	number of points; written form of a musical composition; reason; group of 20; notch or incision; Ex. full/vocal score; Ex. Don't worry on that score; V: mark with lines or notches; Ex. score the paper to make it easy to fold
venture	 	risk; expose to risk; dare; undertake a risk; N.
garbled	 	mixed up; jumbled; distorted; V. garble: mix up or distort (a message) to such an extent as to make misleading or unintelligible
iniquitous	 	wicked; immoral; unrighteous; N. iniquity; Ex. den of iniquity
existential	 	pertaining to existence; pertaining to the philosophy of existentialism
catholic	 	(of likings and interests) universal; general; broad; including many different parts; wide-ranging liberal; Ex. catholic opinions/tastes
lunar	 	pertaining to the moon
mirage	 	unreal reflection; optical illusion
tawny	 	brownish yellow
actuary	 	someone who advises insurance companies
predecessor	 	former occupant of a post
axiom	 	self-evident truth requiring no proof
cessation	 	stoppage
raffle	 	lottery; V: award as a prize in a raffle; Ex. raffle off a new car
indecisive	 	marked by indecision; inconclusive; Ex. indecisive battle
euthanasia	 	mercy killing
sodden	 	thoroughly soaked; dull or stupid as if from drink
precedent	 	preceding (in time, rank, etc.)
evince	 	show clearly
flourish	 	grow well; prosper; make sweeping gestures; wave; brandish; Ex. The trees flourished in the sun. N: showy movement or gesture; embellishment or ornamentation (esp. in handwriting)
rescind	 	repeal; annul; cancel (a law, decision, or agreement)
intrepid	 	fearless
recourse	 	resorting to help when in trouble; Ex. without recourse to
alliteration	 	repetition of beginning sound in poetry
straggle	 	stray or fall behind (a main group); spread out in a scattered group; Ex. straggling marathon racer; Ex. straggling branch
piquant	 	pleasantly tart-tasting; spicy; pleasantly stimulating; Ex. piquant situation when my old enemy asked for my help
compunction	 	remorse; strong uneasiness caused by guilt
circumscribe	 	limit; confine; draw a line around
takeoff	 	burlesque; act of leaving the ground
elope	 	run away secretly with the intention of getting married
season	 	enhance the flavor of by adding a spice, etc.; inure; harden; N. seasoning: something used in seasoning
fancy	 	imagination (of a whimsical or fantastic nature); capricious liking; V: imagine; be fond of; ADJ. decorative; elaborate
zany	 	comic; crazy; N: clown; comical person (given to outlandish behavior)
h 46
overblown	 	inflated; exaggerated
artless	 	without guile; open and honest
perjury	 	false testimony while under oath; V. perjure oneself: testify falsely under oath
sagacious	 	wise; perceptive; shrewd; having insight; N. sagacity
verity	 	quality of being true; lasting truth or principle; Ex. the verity of his testimony; Ex. one of the eternal verities
idolatry	 	worship of idols; excessive admiration or devotion; ADJ. idolatrous
hedonist	 	one who believes that pleasure is the sole aim in life; CF. hedonism: practice of living one's life purely for pleasure
rile	 	irritate; vex; muddy
fortitude	 	bravery; courage; strength of mind
piscatorial	 	pertaining to fishing; CF. Pisces
flout	 	reject; mock; show contempt for; scorn; Ex. flout the rules
introvert	 	one who  is  introspective or inclined  to  think  more  about oneself; ADJ. introverted
felicitous	 	(of a word or remark) apt; suitably expressed; well chosen
jab	 	poke abruptly with something sharp; punch with short blows
panache	 	flair; manner of doing things without any difficulty (causing admiration); flamboyance; bunch of feathers (on a helmet); Ex. with great panache; CF. 잔 아래로 천을 빼내는 솜씨
stanch	 	stop or check flow of blood; Ex. stanch the gushing wound
testy	 	irritable; impatient and bad-tempered; short-tempered; N. testiness
solvent	 	substance that dissolves another; ADJ: capable of dissolving another substance
animosity	 	active enmity
cantata	 	story set to music to be sung by a chorus (shorter than an oratorio)
mandatory	 	obligatory; compulsory; of a mandate
perspicacious	 	(of someone) having insight; penetrating; astute
coma	 	deep prolonged unconsciousness caused by disease, poison, or a severe blow
retract	 	withdraw; take back; draw back; Ex. retract a statement/an offer/claws; N. retraction; CF. retractile
espionage	 	spying
coterie	 	group that meets socially; select circle; close group of people with shared interests
verdant	 	green; covered with green plants or grass; lush in vegetation; Ex. verdant meadows
diffidence	 	shyness; lack of self-confidence; timidity; ADJ. diffident
compulsory	 	obligatory; that must be done
halcyon	 	calm; peaceful; Ex. halcyon days
suppress	 	put an end to forcibly; subdue; stifle; overwhelm; inhibit the expression of; check; prevent from being published or made public; Ex. suppress a smile; Ex. suppress the magazine/truth
sap	 	diminish; weaken; undermine the foundations of (a fortification); Ex. The element kryptonite sapped his strength.
fortuitous	 	accidental; by chance; N. fortuity
intervene	 	come between; interfere; Ex. intervened to prevent a fight; N. intervention
cant	 	insincere speech or expression of piety; jargon of thieves; special words used by a particular group of people
wangle	 	achieve by cleverness or trick; wiggle out; fake; Ex. She tried to wangle an invitation to the party.
phobia	 	morbid fear
igneous	 	produced by fire; of fire; volcanic; (of rocks) formed from lava; Ex. igneous meteorite
cerebration	 	thought; working of the brain
annuity	 	yearly allowance
unexceptionable	 	entirely acceptable; not offering any basis for criticism
scuffle	 	struggle confusedly; move off in a confused hurry; N. CF. scuffling twins ?
platitude	 	trite remark; commonplace statement; ADJ. platitudinous
charm	 	quality of pleasing; amulet; action or formula thought to have magical power; spell; V: attract; cast a spell on; bewitch
hubbub	 	confused uproar; loud noise; din
unconscionable	 	unscrupulous; not guided by conscience; excessive; beyond reason; Ex. unconscionable demand
morose	 	ill-humored; sullen; sullenly melancholy
maneuver(manoeuver)	 	strategic military or naval movement (done for training purposes); carefully planned process; stratagem; V: carry out a military maneuver; use maneuvers in gaining an end
lout	 	clumsy person; ADJ. loutish; CF. from countrysides ?
amnesia	 	loss of memory
pedestal	 	support or base as for a pillar or statue
clime	 	climate
martial	 	warlike; of war; Ex. martial art/law
firebrand	 	piece of burning wood; hothead; troublemaker; person who stirs up trouble
moodiness	 	fits of depression or gloom; ADJ. moody: given to changeable moods; subject to periods of depression; gloomy CF. mood:	state of mind or emotion
figurative	 	not literal but metaphorical; using a figure(impression) of speech
peddle	 	travel about selling (wares); CF. foot
unceremonious	 	not done politely without due formalities
festive	 	joyous; celebratory; relating to a feast or festival
typhoon	 	tropical hurricane or cyclone
antecede	 	precede
apiary	 	a place where bees are kept
humdrum	 	dull; monotonous
nostalgia	 	homesickness; longing for the past; Ex. nostalgia for the clothes of 1920s; ADJ. nostalgic
pomposity	 	self-important behavior; acting like a stuffed shirt(pompous person); ADJ. pompous: self-important
exuberance	 	overflowing abundance; joyful enthusiasm; flamboyance; lavishness; ADJ. exuberant: high-spirited and lively; growing abundantly and strongly
diorama	 	life-size, three-dimensional scene from nature or history; three-dimensional scene with modeled figures against a painted background
communal	 	held in common; public; of a group of people; of a commune
eminent	 	rising above others; high; lofty; distinguished; Ex. eminent position
conception	 	beginning; forming of an idea; fertilization; V. conceive: form an idea in the mind; devise; become pregnant; CF. inception
roseate	 	rosy; optimistic; Ex. roseate views
forthright	 	straightforward; direct; frank
degenerate	 	become worse in quality; deteriorate; ADJ: having become worse; Ex. a degenerate species; N: depraved or corrupt person
incipient	 	beginning; in an early stage
smudge	 	dirty mark with unclear edges made by rubbing; V.
antiseptic	 	substance that prevents infection in a wound; ADJ.
virtue	 	goodness; moral excellence; good quality; advantage; Ex. by virtue of; Ex. make a virtue of necessity
exemplary	 	serving as a model; outstanding; Ex. exemplary punishment/behavior; N. exemplar: typical example; model
indecision	 	irresolution; inability to make up one's mind
ponderous	 	having great weight; weighty; unwieldy; lacking lightness; dull; Ex. ponderous body/style of writing
frugality	 	thrift; economy; ADJ. frugal: practicing economy; costing little; inexpensive
posture	 	assume an affected pose; act artificially; N: pose; attitude
comeback	 	retort; quick clever reply; return to former status
acclivity	 	sharp upslope of a hill; OP. declivity
dummy	 	imitation of a real object used as a substitute; effigy
purport	 	intention; purpose; meaning; V: claim; profess; Ex. order which purports to be signed by the general
terminus	 	last stop of railroad; end
nuance	 	shade of slight difference in meaning or color; subtle distinction
bewitch	 	cast a spell over; captivate completely
libel	 	defamatory written statement; act of writing something that smears a person's character; V. ADJ. libelous
incantation	 	singing or chanting of magic spells; magical formula; (the saying of) words used in magic; CF. enchant
acne	 	skin disease (on the face)
metrical	 	metric; written in the form of poetry; Ex. metrical translation of Homer
impregnable	 	invulnerable; impossible to capture or enter by force; Ex. impregnable fort/argument; CF. take
inherent	 	firmly established by nature or habit; intrinsic
fidelity	 	loyalty; accuracy
h 47
standstill	 	condition of no movement or activity; stop
adjuration	 	solemn urging; V. adjure: entreat earnestly; enjoin solemnly
habitat	 	natural home of a plant or animal; CF. habitation
obeisance	 	bow (to show respect and obedience)
carillon	 	a set of bells (often in a tower) capable of being played
sleight	 	dexterity; CF. sleight of hand: legerdemain; quickness of the hands in doing tricks
actuarial	 	calculating; pertaining to insurance statistics
ramble	 	wander aimlessly (physically or mentally); digress
lustrous	 	shining; brilliant; Ex. lustrous hair
substantiate	 	support (a claim) with evidence; establish with evidence; verify
resolution	 	determination; resoluteness; ADJ. resolute: firm or determined in purpose
awl	 	pointed tool used for piercing
urge	 	drive or force forward (by causing impulses); drive to take action; impel; entreat earnestly; Ex. urge horses; N: impulse that prompts action
vigilante	 	one who without authority assumes law enforcement powers
hatch	 	deck opening; lid covering a deck opening; V: emerge from an egg; produce (young) from an egg
irreparable	 	not able to be corrected or repaired; impossible to repair
herpetologist	 	one who studies reptiles; CF. herpetology: branch of zoology that deals with reptiles and amphibians
saturate	 	soak thoroughly; imbue; impregnate; charge; fill to capacity
medley	 	mixture
improvident	 	thriftless; not providing for the future
connivance	 	pretense of ignorance of something wrong; assistance; permission to offend; V. connive: feign ignorance (of a wrong); cooperate secretly in an illegal action; conspire
verdigris	 	green coating or patina on copper which has been exposed to the weather
pusillanimous	 	cowardly; lacking courage; fainthearted
clique	 	small exclusive group of people
congruence	 	correspondence of parts; harmonious relationship; CF. congruity
dexterous	 	skillful; skill in using hands or mind; N. dexterity
beware	 	be cautious (of)
relent	 	become less severe; give in(surrender); ADJ. relentless: unyielding; continuously severe
senility	 	old age; feeblemindedness of old age; ADJ. senile: resulting from old age; showing the weakness of body or mind from old age; Ex. senile dementia
xenophobia	 	fear or hatred of foreigners; N. xenophobe
jest	 	playful remark or act; V. act or speak playfully
expository	 	explanatory; serving to explain; N. exposition: explaining; exhibition
catechism	 	book for religious instruction in question-and-answer form; religious instruction by question and answer; V. catechize
overbearing	 	bossy; domineering and arrogant; decisively important; Ex. overbearing manner/importance; V. overbear: dominate
indissoluble	 	permanent; impossible to dissolve or disintegrate
rotund	 	(of a person) fat and round
contention	 	assertion; claim; thesis; struggling; competition
treatise	 	article treating a subject systematically and thoroughly
exude	 	flow out slowly; discharge (gradually); give forth; N. exudation
creed	 	system of religious or ethical belief
scrimmage	 	disorderly fight between two or more people
delete	 	erase; strike out
mandate	 	order; charge; authoritative command; power to govern another country; power to given to a government; region under administration; V: give a mandate to; place under a mandate; Ex. mandated territory
astral	 	relating to the stars
quicksilver	 	mercury
buoyant	 	able to float; cheerful and optimistic; N. buoyancy; Ex. buoyancy of wood/water/American market
prostrate	 	stretch out full on ground; make prostrate; enervate; Ex. prostrating illness; ADJ: lying face down; having lost all strength
embryonic	 	undeveloped; rudimentary; N. embryo: organism in the early stage of development
exegesis	 	explanation, especially of biblical(of the bible) passages
quizzical	 	curious; suggesting puzzlement (without saying); questioning; teasing; mocking; bantering; Ex. quizzical glance
retrospective	 	looking back on the past; N. retrospection; V. retrospect
monetary	 	pertaining to money
sidereal	 	relating to stars; Ex. sidereal day
quibble	 	minor objection or complaint; V: raise minor objections; carp; cavil
controvert	 	oppose with arguments; attempt to refute; contradict; ADJ. controversial; N. controversy
ordination	 	ceremony conferring holy orders; ceremony of ordaining a priest
coeval	 	living at the same time as; existing during the same period of time; contemporary; of the same age
nullify	 	make invalid; make null; invalidate
prolixity	 	tedious wordiness; verbosity; ADJ. prolix: wordy; verbose; diffuse
equity	 	fairness; justice; OP. inequity
derivative	 	unoriginal; obtained from another source; Ex. derivative prose style; N.
intimate	 	hint; suggest; imply; ADJ: marked by close relationship; familiar; private; personal; Ex. intimate knowledge/thoughts in the diary; N: close friend or confidant; CF. intimacy
retinue	 	following; attendants
dabble	 	work at in a nonserious fashion; splash around; move noisily in a liquid
penetrate	 	enter into; pierce; permeate; see through; grasp the inner significance of; understand
swamp	 	wetland; marsh; V: flood; overwhelm; drench in with liquid
inquisitive	 	eager for knowledge; unduly curious
feint	 	trick; shift; sham blow; feigned attack to draw away defensive action; V.
portly	 	stout; corpulent
irreproachable	 	beyond reproach; blameless; impeccable; Ex. irreproachable conduct
couple	 	join; unite; OP. uncouple
caprice	 	whim; sudden change of mind without any real cause
compound	 	combine; produce by combining; increase; make worse by adding to or increasing; exacerbate; Ex. compound an error; ADJ: consisting of two or more parts; N: combination of two or more parts; area enclosed by a wall containing a group of buildings; Ex. factory compound; CF. complex
capsize	 	(of a boat) turn over
nonentity	 	person of no importance; nonexistence
mulct	 	defraud a person of something; swindle; Ex. mulct the boy of his legacy
egregious	 	notorious; conspicuously bad or shocking
attentive	 	alert and watchful; listening carefully; paying attention; considerate; thoughtful; politely helpful; Ex. attentive audience; Ex. He was attentive to the old lady; N. attentions: act of courtesy and consideration
propitious	 	favorable; auspicious; advantageous; fortunate; Ex. propitious day/sign
synoptic	 	providing a general overview; summary; N. synopsis
opprobrium	 	infamy; disgrace arising from shameful conduct; vilification(slander); scorn; contempt; Ex. opprobrium hurled against him; ADJ. opprobrious: expressing contempt; shameful or infamous
despondent	 	without hope and courage; depressed; gloomy; N. despondency: loss of hope with gloom; dejection
derivation	 	deriving; origin or source of something; Ex. the derivation of the word
concise	 	brief and compact
exclaim	 	cry out suddenly; N. exclamation; ADJ. exclamatory
chuckle	 	laugh quietly
ossify	 	change or harden into bone; become hard and unchanging in one's ideas
tarantula	 	venomous spider
chapel	 	small church (in a prison, college, or hospital)
molten	 	melted; Ex. molten lava
egotistical	 	egotistic; excessively self-centered(egocentric); self-important; conceited
rave	 	overwhelmingly favorable review; V: talk wildly as if mad; Ex. raving lunatic
usurp	 	seize another's power or rank (without legal authority); supplant; appropriate; N. usurpation; CF. take for one's own use
reiterate	 	repeat
compliant	 	readily acting in accordance with a rule, order, or the wishes or others; yielding; comforming to requirements
dote	 	be excessively fond of; show signs of mental decline
h 48
obstetrician	 	physician specializing in delivery(assisting in giving birth) of babies; N. obstetrics; CF. midwife
musty	 	stale (in odor or taste); spoiled by age; CF. moist
attest	 	testify; bear witness
thrifty	 	careful about money; economical; N. thrift
finish	 	surface texture; completeness of execution
oracular	 	of an oracle; prophetic; uttered as if with divine authority; mysterious or ambiguous; hard to understand; N. oracle: wiser person; prophecy made by an oracle
anomalous	 	abnormal; irregular
dowry	 	money or property brought by a bride to her husband at marriage
rebate	 	return of part of a payment; discount; V.
conglomerate	 	corporation made up of several different companies in diversified fields; mass of various material gathered together; rock consisting of small stones held together by clay; V.
chant	 	tune(melody) in which a number of words are sung on the same note; V: sing (a chant); utter (a slogan) in the manner of a chant
gustatory	 	affecting or relating to the sense of taste
droll	 	queer and amusing
incentive	 	spur; motive; something which encourages one to greater activity
sound	 	in good condition; showing good judgment or good sense; thorough; complete; Ex. sound mind/investment/training
secular	 	worldly; not pertaining to church matters or religion; temporal
blue	 	gloomy; depressed
expurgate	 	clean; remove offensive parts of a book
gratuity	 	tip
latitude	 	freedom from narrow limitations
equine	 	resembling a horse; Ex. equine face
interregnum	 	period between two successive reigns or governments
memoir	 	memoirs; autobiography; biography
aghast	 	filled with great surprise or fear; horrified
regime	 	method of system or government
bowdlerize	 	expurgate; CF. Thomas Bowdler
discombobulated	 	discomposed; confused
proscenium	 	part of stage in front of curtain; front arch of a stage
dormer	 	window projecting upright from roof; CF. sleeping room
panoramic	 	denoting an unobstructed and comprehensive view; N. panorama: unbroken view of a wide area
endemic	 	prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country; peculiar to a particular region or people; CF. pandemic
chorus	 	phrase repeated throughout a song or poem
except	 	exclude; N. exception: objection; exclusion; ADJ. exceptional: unusual; of unusually high quality
fervor	 	glowing ardor; intensity of feeling; quality of being fervent or fervid; zeal; intense heat
urbane	 	suave; refined in manner; elegant
cite	 	quote; commend; Ex. cited for bravery in an official record
ignominy	 	deep disgrace; shame or dishonor; ADJ. ignominious; Ex. ignominous defeat
inured	 	accustomed; hardened; Ex. inured to the Alaskan cold; V. inure: make used to something undesirable; harden; CF. unfeeling
unearth	 	dig up; discover (facts) by careful searching; Ex. He unearthed some secrets about her; OP. conceal
padre	 	chaplain (in the armed forces)
predicament	 	difficult situation; tricky or dangerous situation; dilemma
torpedo	 	underwater explosive apparatus; V.
prestige	 	respect or admiration; impression produced by achievements or reputation; ADJ: causing admiration; ADJ. prestigious: having prestige
scheme	 	systematic plan; plot; clever dishonest plan; orderly arrangement of elements; Ex. health insurance scheme; Ex. a scheme to escape taxes; Ex. a color scheme; Ex. a story with no scheme; V: contrive a scheme
rhapsody	 	excessively enthusiastic expression of feeling; musical composition of irregular form (as if made up as one plays it)
entity	 	real being
distract	 	take (one's attention) off something; upset emotionally; make anxious; ADJ. distracted
anthropologist	 	student of the history and science of humankind
cavil	 	quibble; make frivolous objections; find fault unnecessarily
malodorous	 	foul-smelling
tribunal	 	court of justice
quay	 	dock; wharf; pier; landing place (for boats)
milieu	 	social environment; means of expression; Ex. feel out of one's milieu; Ex. His proper milieu is watercolor.
reticent	 	inclined to silence; uncommunicative; reserved; Ex. He was reticent about the reasons; N. reticence
inhibited	 	(of a person) unable to express what one really feels
dolorous	 	sorrowful; N. dolor
remission	 	temporary moderation (of disease symptoms); remitting of a debt or punishment; cancelation of a debt; pardon; Ex. The disease went into remission; Ex. Christians pray for the remission of sins.
exorcise	 	drive out evil spirits
caulk(calk)	 	make watertight (by blocking up cracks as in a ship)
estimable	  (of a person) worthy of esteem; admirable; deserving esteem; possible to estimate
bouillon	 	clear beef (or meat) soup
taciturn	 	habitually silent; talking little
loath	 	reluctant; unwilling; disinclined; Ex. Romeo and Juliet were both loath for him to go.
saccharine	 	cloying sweet; characteristic of sugar or saccharin
indiscriminate	 	choosing at random; confused; not based on careful distinctions
impalpable	 	imperceptible(not easily understood); intangible; OP. palpable: tangible; easily perceptible
jettison	 	throw overboard (from a ship or plane)
futile	 	useless; hopeless; ineffectual
altruistic	 	unselfishly generous; concerned for others; N. altiruism: unselfish concern for the welfare of others; unselfishness; OP. egoism
viand	 	food; CF. live
foible	 	small weakness of character; slight fault; CF. feeble
mauve	 	pale purple
solder	 	repair or make whole by using a metal alloy; N: metal alloy (usually tin and lead) used in the molten state to join metallic parts
prominent	 	protruding(sticking out); conspicuous; notable; eminent
tract	 	propaganda pamphlet (esp. by a religious or political group); expanse of land; region of indefinite size; system of related organs; Ex. digestive tract
novice	 	beginner
mutinous	 	unruly; rebellious; Ex. mutinous teenagers; N. mutiny: open rebellion; CF. mutineer
connubial	 	pertaining to marriage or the matrimonial state
crust	 	hard outer covering (as of earth or snow)
digression	 	wandering away from the subject; V. digress
adjacent	 	adjoining; neighboring; close by
troth	 	pledge of good faith especially in betrothal; betrothal; Ex. by my troth
fervent	 	ardent; zealous; hot
log	 	record of a voyage or flight; record of day-to-day activities; section of a trunk; V.
rail	 	complain bitterly; scold; rant; Ex. the weaker railing against injustices
incongruity	 	lack of harmony; absurdity; ADJ. incongruous: lacking in harmony; inappropriate
comatose	 	in a coma; extremely sleepy
outspoken	 	candid; blunt
resilient	 	elastic; having the power of springing back; able to recover quickly (as from misfortune)
grate	 	make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; shred by rubbing against a rough surface; Ex. grated cheese N: framework of metal bars to hold fuel in a fireplace
prevaricate	 	lie; hide the truth (by equivocating)
natation	 	swimming
articulate	 	effective; distinct; expressing ideas clearly; having clear sounds; having joints; Ex. articulate speech; V: express thoughts and feeling clearly; pronounce clearly; unite by joints
arbiter	 	person with power to decide a matter in dispute; judge who is in a position ot make influential judgments; Ex. supreme arbiter of fashion in beachware
aversion	 	firm dislike
preamble	 	introductory statement
h 49
illuminate	 	brighten; clear up or make understandable; enlighten; enable to understand; Ex. illuminating remarks
ichthyology	 	study of fish; CF. ichthyo-: fish
polar	 	of a pole; characterized by opposite extremes; Ex. polar opposites
immobility	 	state of being immovable
haggard	 	wasted away; gaunt; Ex. haggard faces of the rescued miners
unwarranted	 	unjustified; having no justification; groundless; baseless; undeserved
proletarian	 	member of the working class; blue collar guy; N. proletariat: working class (who have to work for wages)
pulchritude	 	beauty; comeliness; ADJ. pulchritudinous
embezzlement	 	taking for one's own use in violation of trust; stealing (of money placed in one's care)
entree(entr\'ee)	 	entrance; a way in; right to enter; main dish of a meal; Ex. entree into the exclusive circle
toady	 	servile flatterer; yes man; sycophant; V: be a toady to; fawn
disparate	 	basically different; impossible to compare; unrelated
abscond	 	depart secretly and hide
mendacious	 	lying; habitually dishonest; N. mendacity
anticlimax	 	letdown in thought or emotion; something unexciting, ordinary, or disappointing coming after something important or exciting
inquisitor	 	questioner (especially harsh); investigator; person making an inquisition
pilfer	 	steal things of small value; filch; snitch
effluvium	 	noxious(harmful) smell
sardonic	 	scornfully mocking; disdainful; sarcastic; cynical; Ex. sardonic smile
amulet	 	charm; talisman; an object worn believed to protect against evil, bad luck
transcribe	 	copy; write a copy of; N. transcription
rant	 	speak violently or excitedly; rave; talk excitedly showing anger; scold; make a grandiloquent speech; Ex. The priest ranted about the devil.
vindicate	 	clear from blame; free from blame or accusation (with supporting proof); exonerate; substantiate; justify or support; avenge; Ex. vindicate one's client; Ex. vindicate one's claim; CF. vindicator
drivel	 	nonsense; foolishness; V: talk nonsense
unregenerate	 	making no attempt to change one's bad practices
haven	 	place of safety; refuge; harbor; Ex. tax haven
foist	 	insert improperly; impose upon another by coercion; palm off; pass off as genuine or worthy; CF. fist
contagion	 	infection (by contact); ADJ. contagious; CF. infectious: that can be passed by infection in the air
subterfuge	 	stratagem(deceptive scheme); pretense; evasion; Ex. resort to a harmless subterfuge
windfall	 	fallen fruit; unexpected lucky event
stipple	 	paint or draw with dots or short strokes
irascible	 	irritable; easily angered
trilogy	 	group of three related works (connected by a shared subject but each complete in itself)
carousal	 	drunken revel; V. carouse
pedigree	 	ancestry; lineage
orifice	 	mouthlike opening; small opening (esp. to a cavern or passage of the body); CF. mouth
sinuous	 	twisting; winding; bending in and out; not morally honest
nonplus	 	put at a loss; bring to a halt by confusion; perplex; CF. no more
earthly	 	of this earth; terrestrial; worldly; not divine; possible; Ex. no earthly reason
dowse	 	use a divining rod to search for underground water or minerals
miscellaneous	 	made up of a variety of parts
bountiful	 	generous; graciously generous; showing bounty
glacial	 	like a glacier; of an ice age; extremely cold; Ex. glacial epoch; CF. iceberg
expedite	 	hasten; make go faster
expiate	 	make amends for (a sin)
ward	 	administrative division of a city; division in a hospital or prison; incompetent person placed under the protection of a guardian; V: guard; ward off: avert
flippant	 	lacking proper seriousness; Ex. flippant remarks about death; N. flippancy
embellish	 	adorn; ornament; enhance as a story (by adding fictitious details)
indolent	 	lazy
impersonal	 	not being a person; not showing personal feelings; Ex. impersonal force/manner/organization
conformity	 	harmony; agreement with established rules or customs; similarity; Ex. behave in conformity with; V. conform: be similar; act in agreement; comply; Ex. conform to the rule; CF. conformance
brink	 	edge (at the top of a cliff); Ex. on the brink of the Grand Canyon
nubile	 	marriageable; of marriageable age; CF. connubial
criteria	 	standards used in judging; CF. criterion
soothsayer	 	one who foretells the future
clot	 	half-solid lump formed from a liquid (or blood); V.
artifice	 	deception; trickery
prowess	 	extraordinary ability; military bravery; Ex. prowess in battle
fruitful	 	producing results; profitable; prolific; producing in abundance
adroit	 	skillful (in using mind or hand)
agenda	 	items of business at a meeting
guile	 	deceit; duplicity; wiliness; cunning; Ex. persuade her by guile
cemetery	 	place for burying the dead
bourgeois	 	middle class; selfishly materialistic; too interested in material possessions
loathe	 	detest; ADJ. loathsome: arousing loathing; offensive; Ex. loathsome smell
calculated	 	deliberately planned; likely
obscure	 	dark; vague; unclear; not well known; Ex. obscure meaning/village; V: darken; cover; make unclear; Ex. obscure the moon/meaning
physiological	 	pertaining to the science of the function of living organisms; N. physiology
bellicose	 	warlike
headfirst	 	moving with the head leading; headlong
stipulate	 	state as a necessary condition (of an agreement); make express conditions; specify; Ex. He stipulated payment in advance
zest	 	outer skin of an orange used for giving a special taste to food; spice; interest; flavor; spirited enjoyment; Ex. add a certain zest to the affair; Ex. zest for life
virile	 	manly; having masculine spirit or strength; full of strength
opportune	 	timely; well-chosen
benevolent	 	generous; charitable; having a wish to do good
perversion	 	corruption; turning from right to wrong
protract	 	prolong; lengthen in time; draw out
effeminate	 	having womanly traits
anvil	 	iron block used in hammering out metals
ooze	 	(of a thick liquid) pass or flow slowly; N: mud or thick liquid as at the bottom of a river
deciduous	 	falling off at a specific season or stage of growth as of leaves; Ex. deciduous tree/teeth
recital	 	act of reciting publicly; detailed account; performance of music or dance (by a solo performer)
effectual	 	able to produce a desired effect; valid
chauvinist	 	blindly devoted patriot; zealous adherent of a group, cause, or sex; ADJ. chauvinistic; CF. chauvinism; Nicolas Chauvin
swarthy	 	(of a skin or complexion) dark; dusky; Ex. swarthy Italian ?
alluvial	 	pertaining to soil deposits left by running water
quadruped	 	four-footed animal; ADJ. CF. biped
facet	 	small plane surface (of a gem(precious stone)); a side
epilogue	 	short speech at conclusion of dramatic work
permeable	 	that can be permeated; penetrable; porous; allowing liquids or gas to pass through; V. permeate: spread or flow throughout; charge
bicameral	 	two-chambered as a legislative body
primal	 	first in rank or importance; being first in time; original; Ex. man's primal innocence
kneel	 	go down on one's knee(s)
repress	 	hold back (the natural expression of); restrain; crush; oppress; Ex. repressed child; Ex. repress a laugh/rebellion
celestial	 	heavenly
counterpart	 	thing that completes another; things very much alike; thing that has the same purpose in a different system
h 50
gratuitous	 	given freely; unwarranted; uncalled for; done without good reason; Ex. gratuitous comment
bulge	 	protruding part; swelling of a surface; Ex. The apple made a bulge in his pocket; V: swell outward; protrude
deference	 	courteous regard for another's wish; courteous yielding to another's wish or opinion (showing respect); ADJ. deferential; OP. effrontery
cavalier	 	casual and offhand; arrogant; N: knight
stodgy	 	dull; stuffy; boringly conservative; Ex. stodgy book
ungainly	 	(of someone) awkward in movement; clumsy; (of something) unwieldy; Ex. ungainly dancer/instrument
judiciary	 	judicial branch of government
loiter	 	hang about/around; stand idly about; linger
aggrandize	 	make greater; increase in power, wealth, rank, or honor; N. aggrandizement
elixir	 	cure-all; panacea; something invigorating
improvise	 	compose on the spur of the moment
mollify	 	soothe an angry person
deadpan	 	wooden; impassive; with no show of feeling; with an expressionless face
rightful	 	legally correct; Ex. rightful owner
naivet\'e(naivety)	 	quality of being unsophisticated; simplicity; artlessness; gullibility; ADJ. naive(na\"ive): ingenuous; lacking worldliness; simple; credulous
rou\'e	 	lecherous man
char	 	make or become black by burning; reduce or be reduced to carbon or charcoal(black substance made by burning wood) by incomplete combustion
recession	 	withdrawal; retreat; time of low economic activity
colossus	 	gigantic statue; person or thing of great size or importance
magniloquent	 	boastful; pompous
pestle	 	tool for mashing or grinding substances in a hard bowl or mortar
irreconcilable	 	impossible to reconcile; incompatible; not able to be resolved
ecliptic	 	path of the sun and the planets
sherbet	 	flavored dessert ice
capitulate	 	surrender; give up all resistance
fleck	 	spot; mark with flecks; N: small mark or spot
rare	 	(of air) thin in density; rarefied; Ex. rare air of the mountains
hegemony	 	dominance especially of one nation over others
insolence	 	impudent disrespect; haughtiness; ADJ. insolent; CF. haughty + rude
infallible	 	unerring; never making mistakes
pinnacle	 	peak; highest point; acme; Ex. pinnacle of fame
spatula	 	broad-bladed instrument used for spreading or mixing
chide	 	scold; rebuke (someone who has done wrong)
haunt	 	(of a spirit) visit (a place); come to mind continually; visit (a place) regularly; frequent; Ex. haunted house; Ex. haunted by his last words; N: place much frequented
statutory	 	created by statute or legislative action; regulated by statute; Ex. statutory age limit
carnal	 	fleshly; sensual; concerning the desires of the body
thrall	 	slave; bondage; slavery; Ex. Her beauty held him in thrall; CF. enthrall
gull	 	trick; deceive; hoodwink; N: person who is easily tricked; dupe
amenable	 	obedient; compliant; readily managed; responsive; willing to be led; answerable or accountable legally; responsible; able to be tested by; Ex. amenable to sensible suggestions; Ex. He is very amenable; Ex. amenable to the usual tests
seismic	 	pertaining to earthquakes
vagrant	 	homeless wanderer
pessimism	 	belief that life is basically bad or evil; gloominess; tendency to take the gloomiest possible view of a situation; ADJ. pessimistic
sublimate	 	refine; purify; replace (natural urges) with socially acceptable activities; change between a solid state and a gaseous state
reputable	 	respectable; having a good reputation
salvage	 	rescue (goods or property) from loss; N: saving; property saved
repel	 	drive away; disgust; Ex. repel the attack/moisture; Ex. repelled by the dirty room; CF. repulsion
disengage	 	uncouple; separate; disconnect; stop fighting; OP. engage
exacting	 	extremely demanding; Ex. exacting standard of safety
endearment	 	fond word or act; expression of affection
cabal	 	small group of persons secretly united to promote their own interests
jaded	 	tired or uninterested by surfeit; fatigued; surfeited; worn out; wearied; Ex. jaded appetite
glow	 	shine brightly without a flame (as of eyes or metals); show redness and heat (in the face) after hard work or because of strong feelings; N: light produced by a heated body; brilliance of a color
abominable	 	detestable; extremely unpleasant
feature	 	distinctive part of the faces (as the eyes or mouth); features: overall appearance of the face; prominent or distinctive quality; prominent article; film; V: make prominent
percussion	 	striking one object against another sharply; Ex. percussion instrument; N: striking together of two bodies; sound caused by percussion
engage	 	attract; employ; hire; pledge oneself; confront; fight; enter into confliction; interlock; lock together; participate; N. engagement: agreement to marry; arrangement to meet someone or to do something; battle
winnow	 	sift; separate the chaff from grain by blowing; separate good parts from bad; CF. wind
abortive	 	unsuccessful; fruitless
rotunda	 	circular building or hall covered with a dome
revile	 	attack with abusive language; vilify(slander)
blanch	 	bleach; whiten; make white or pale
breach	 	breaking of contract or duty; fissure or gap; opening; V.
hurtle	 	crash; rush; move with great speed; Ex. hurtling runaway train
circlet	 	small ring; band of gold, silver, jewel, etc. (worn on the head, arms, or neck as decoration)
sensual	 	devoted to the pleasures of the sense; carnal; voluptuous; Ex. sensual woman/curves/lips
credential	 	evidence concerning one's authority; written proof of a person's position; Ex. The new ambassador presented his credentials to the court.
culinary	 	relating to cooking or kitchen
ultimate	 	final; not susceptible to further analysis; fundamental; Ex. The sun is the ultimate source of energy.
supposition	 	assumption; hypothesis; surmise; V. suppose
tenure	 	holding of an office or real estate; time during which such an office is held
impoverish	 	make poor; deprive of natural strength or something important; Ex. impoverished soil
perquisite(perk)	 	any gain above stipulated salary; Ex. perquisites such as free meals and a car
pillory	 	punish by placing in a wooden frame or pillory; subject or expose to criticism and ridicule; N.
propulsive	 	driving forward; N. propulsion
accretion	 	growth or increase in size by gradual addition; growth; increase; increase by natural growth; Ex. towers and other accretions of the castle; V. accrete
provident	 	providing for future needs; displaying foresight; thrifty; preparing for emergencies; OP. improvident
elegy	 	poem or song expressing lamentation (for the dead); ADJ. elegiacal, elegiac
ancillary	 	serving as an aid or accessory; auxiliary; N.
redolent	 	odorous; fragrant; suggestive (of an odor); Ex. redolent of onions/mystery
buttress	 	support; prop up; N. stationary structure to support wall; Ex. flying buttress
dyspeptic	 	suffering from indigestion; N. dyspepsia: indigestion; difficulty in digesting food
tentative	 	not fully worked out or developed; provisional; experimental; uncertain; hesitant; not definite or positive; Ex. tentative agreement/reply
acumen	 	mental keenness; sharpness of judgment; ability to judge quickly and well; Ex. business acumen 
dissident	 	dissenting (with an opinion, a group, or a government); rebellious; N.
domicile	 	home; V. ADJ. domiciled: having one's domicile; Ex. He is domiciled in Britain.
loom	 	appear or take shape (usually in an enlarged, indistinct, or distorted form); Ex. The shadow of the gallows loomed threateningly. N: apparatus for making thread into cloth
resplendent	 	brilliant; splendid in appearance; dazzling; glorious
monogram	 	design composed of one or more initials of a name; V.
visage	 	face; appearance
threadbare	 	worn through till the threads show; shabby and poor; hackneyed; Ex. threadbare excuses
kernel	 	central or vital part; core; whole seed (as of corn)
traumatic	 	(of an experience) deeply shocking; pertaining to an injury caused by violence; N. trauma: serious wound; emotional shock that causes lasting psychological damage
defeatist	 	resigned to defeat or failure; accepting defeat or failure as a natural outcome; N. CF. defeatism
gentle	 	kindly; soft; mild; of good family
correlate	 	either of the correlated things; V.
incisive	 	(appreciatively) cutting; sharp; Ex. incisive remarks; V. incise: make a cut into
